1-1: A WOMAN HAS RISEN OUT OF THE
OCEAN,A SEAL IS EMBRACING HER
Commentary: ‘A Woman Has Risen Out of the Ocean’. She is
consciously aware of leaving the past behind in order to emerge
into a whole new arena of existence and activity. The ‘Seal
Embracing Her’ symbolizes her being welcomed into this newarena. This degree is right on the cusp of Pisces and Aries, whenthe yearly astrological cycle begins again. It’s like the beginningof a new year. In the Northern hemisphere it marks the beginning of spring—the Spring Equinox. Long ago there was a belief that
the spirits of those who had drowned at sea had the ability to
enjoy life in the ocean in the form of ‘Seals’. When they wished,
the Selkies could, once per moon cycle, swim ashore, drop their sealskins and become mortals again.
Oracle: New understandings and awareness are coming to light.Whatever is emerging, either in you or around you needs to be
accepted, welcomed and nurtured. It’s best to resist the old
familiar ways of being or relating as they can pull you back tooutgrown and possibly unsatisfactory conditions. Maybe you feelyou are not being acknowledged, don’t have a voice or are notbeing heard. Take heart as comfort and salvation are likely to befound in the most unexpected places. Despite any setbacks, beaware that you possess the power to make the necessary changesin your life. It is time to claim your place or make a mark in thisnew world. So much potential lies ahead of you. Welcome thisnew beginning and be fearless in the face of the changes thatare coming. Accept the ‘Embrace’ of those who welcome youinto this new sphere. It is inevitable that you'll leave somethingbehind as you move into this new territory. Enjoy the journey
and give birth to self-love, self-worth and divine creativity. Letgo of the past and emerge into life and love.
Keywords: Cycles starting. Beginnings. Emergence into concretemanifestation. Embracing and honoring the shadow. Recognizingour animal side. Tropical islands or lands. Rocky shores. Seals.Oceans and water. Shedding skins. Transmutation. The Selkie
myth. Grounding one’s energy. Stepping between the sea andthe shore. Androgyny. Love and its embrace. Finding your feet
and your voice. Mermaids.
The Caution: Using masculine power to overshadow emotions.Refusing to move on. Feeling held back by fears and old lifepatterns. Falling back into previous, unsatisfactory conditions.
Dragging others backwards. Immobilizing fear of the unknown.Being just another “fish in the sea’.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 1
Change starts when someonesees the next step.
William Drayton
But the beginning of things, ofa world especially, is necessarily
vague, tangled, chaotic, and
exceedingly disturbing. How
few of us ever emerge from
such a beginning! How manysouls perish in its tumult!
Kate Chopin
Who would be Amerman bold,
Sitting alone Singing alone
Under the sea, With a crown of gold, On a throne?
Lord Alfred Tennyson
The journey of a thousand
leagues begins from beneath
your feet.Lao Tzu
And forget not that the earthdelights to feel your bare feetand the winds long to play with
your hair.Kahlil Gibran
Everything teaches transition,transference, metamorphosis:therein is human power, intransference, not in creation;and therein is human destiny,not in longevity but in removalwe dive and reappear in newplaces.Ralph Waldo Emerson

1-2: A COMEDIAN ENTERTAINING A GROUP
OF FRIENDS
Commentary: ‘A Comedian Entertaining a Group of Friends’ isseen. The function of the ‘Comedian’ is to show that there’s a needto have a lighter and more positive attitude to ourselves, others
and life in general. He’s ‘Entertaining a Group of Friends’ whichpromotes a feeling of coming together or sharing through laughterand fun. The talk may center on people, things or situations with
the more amusing aspects brought out. An objective awareness
of life can bring enjoyment to concerns as we see things in a
different or wider perspective.
Oracle: We often need to be reminded that we are essentiallyhuman and share the same imperfections, frailties andshortcomings as the next person. Look for the fun in what’s going
on around you as light relief can often be found through seeingthe humor and the funny side. In answer to your question thisSymbol often shows that there’s a need to let go of seriousness.
Try looking at things with a smile on your face. Simple changesin attitude or approach can often free your mind and bring about
a much better outcome. However, this can show somebody nottaking life seriously enough or perhaps putting on a show to getattention or to be liked. Look at what’s happening and evaluate
it: Is there any truth in what’s being said or is it really just a joke? Although there is often pleasure in sharing fun, sometimes it isjust masking the more serious aspects of the situation. The oldsaying “many a truth is told in jest” is often right. Things areoften revealed by a slip of the tongue. Whatever, remember; it’sgood to be lighthearted-and other people’s spirits will probablybe raised at the same time.
Keywords: Seeing the funny side. Having insights. Always beingon the ‘go’ mentally. Putting on a show for others. Having presenceand charisma. Being the life of the party. Banter. Cracking upwith laughter. Ragging each other. Humorous interplay. Sayingwhat the group wants to hear. Jokes. The buffoon. Inside jokes.The jester.
The Caution: Being silly or trivial to avoid reality and gainacceptance. Feeling separate because of different views. Notseeing the light side. Being a bore with many irrelevant thingssaid. Being flippant and insincere. Not being amused. Demandingthe spotlight. Feeling responsible for how others feel. Notknowing when to stop. Not having good boundaries.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 2
In the end, everything is a gag.Charlie Chaplin
Sometimes when reading Goethe I have the paralyzingsuspicion that he is trying to be
funny.Guy Davenport
The best way to cheer yourself
up is to try to cheer somebodyelse up.Mark Twain
To make mistakes is human; tostumble is commonplace; tobe able to laugh at yourself ismaturity.Proverb
The ultimate test of whether
you possess a sense of humoris your reaction when someonetells you you don't.
Frank Tyger
Not one shred of evidencesupports the notion that life isserious.Anon
A serious and good
philosophical work could be
written consisting entirely ofjokes.
Ludwig Wittgenstein
Different taste in jokes is a greatstrain on the affections.
George Eliot

1-3: A CAMEO SHOWS THE PROFILE OF A
MAN THAT SUGGESTS THE OUTLINE OF HIS COUNTRY
Commentary: ‘A Cameo Profile’ is a simple yet strong definitionof an individual’s character, shape, loyalties and role in life.The ‘Cameo’ suggests the appearance of a growing objective
awareness of how someone fits into the larger picture. You mayfind that you, or someone else, have a more important role thanwas previously thought; or that you are imprinting your mark; orpossibly becoming a model of one’s tradition, culture, thoughtsor ideas.
Oracle: There’s often a need to feel included or involved in thelarger picture in order to feel “whole” or accepted. Taking the
time to examine your place in society can bring about insights
into just what the big picture is for you. Understanding and
expanding your true place in the scheme of things can lead to
actually having a much larger ‘Profile’. This could be on any
level, emotional, physical, mental or spiritual. The ‘Country’ that
this Symbol implies may not have national boundaries. Thereis the spiritual “country”, the ideological “country”, even past
life “countries”. There are some people who find their roots ina mixture of these places, or realities, and don’t actually feela belonging to their actual “homeland”. The sense of having aplace is often deep-seated and truly found in the individual’sbelonging to the essential self. How do you, and others, fit intothis situation? Does your ‘Profile’ define you in a different way
from what you'd like, or are you happy with the outline of yourimage? Picture who you want to be or what you want out oflife. Using a pen and paper, draw your ‘Cameo’ or just picture
what the outline of your ‘Country’ should be, as it could be aninteresting exercise. We are what we believe we are. What faceare you showing to the world?
Keywords: Observing one’s limitations. Living a life that is large.Atlases and maps. Standing by one’s self. Allegiances with creed,
religion, race or country. Nationhood. Brotherhood. The land.
People in uniforms of any kind. The face of fighters who fought
‘the good fight’. Borders and limitations to activity. Identification.Expatriates.
The Caution: Stereotyping one’s self or others. Blindly followingthe dogma of parents, government or officials. Not seeing thetrue essence of one’s self. Expecting to fit into some “shape” ormodel. Becoming identified with externals. Seeking recognitionfrom others.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 3
As a woman I have no country.As awoman my country is the
whole world.
Virginia Woolf
He worked like hell in the
country so he could live in the
city, where he worked like hellso he could live in the country.Don Marquis
A man’s country is not a certainarea of land, of mountains,
rivers, and woods, but it is aprinciple; and patriotism isloyalty to that principle.George William Curtis
Socrates said he was not an Athenian or a Greek, but acitizen of the world.Plutarch
He who has an art haseverywhere a part.Romanian Proverb
I have never belongedwholeheartedly to a country, a
state, or to a circle of friends, nor
even to my own family.Albert Einstein
ll the world is a stage, and all
the men and women merely
players. They have their exits
and entrances; each man in histime plays many parts.
William Shakespeare

1-4: TWO LOVERS ARE STROLLING THROUGH
A SECLUDED WALK
Commentary: ‘Two Lovers’ are shown ‘Strolling Through aSecluded Walk’. This image shows that there’s sometimes a needto escape the realities of the world and touch the deeper feelingsof one’s heart. The ‘Secluded Walk’ that the ‘Lovers’ are takingpictures the need for private time, solitude or quiet romance. An
actual ‘Secluded Walk’ may not be necessary - what is important
is the ability to exclude outside energies that interfere with thesharing of intimate time.
Oracle: This Symbol shows that some time should be taken
away from the hustle and bustle of the everyday world, even
if only for a short while. Sometimes a detour must be taken
and the materialistic world put aside in order to share specialmoments with someone close to you. You may desire, or evenneed to exclude others or outside energies from your life at themoment. These things may be interfering with what needs to
be said or done in order to solve relationship difficulties andto move forward in life. If you are by yourself in this situation,the solution may lie in taking time off and just being alone andrediscovering yourself. This can open the door to sharing more
intimate dimensions of yourself with another person when youfeel youre ready for it. This is especially true if your life has beenhectic or confused recently. Sending out an invitation to someonespecial to share moments of your life may bring more rewards
than are immediately apparent. Can you schedule things so thatyou can afford some time out?
Keywords: Walking love’s path. Secret love affairs. Seeking shelterfrom others’ eyes. Wanting or needing to be undisturbed. The
young at heart. Being by one’s self and wondering where the“other” is. Romance. Quiet moments. Seclusion and peace.Intimacy and sharing. Desired destinations. Walking and strollingtogether. “Keep Out” signs. Relationships that are solid and
satisfying. Issues of seclusion, inclusion or exculsion. Privacy.
Being self-sufficient.
The Caution: Being ‘selfish’ by keeping one’s partner or friendto oneself. Jealousy when others are around. Feeling ‘left out’and uninvited. Narrow-minded responses to people or things.Loneliness and/or the desire to be left alone. Denial of self andneeds. Not wanting contact. Rejecting those who don’t measure
up. Seeing one’s partner as a possession.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 4
Let there be spaces in your
togetherness.Kahlil Gibran
Whether joy or sorrowful, theheart needs a double, because
a joy shared is doubled andapain that is shared is divided.
Ruckett
The man who goes alone canstart today; but he who travels
with another must wait till the
otherisready, and it may bealong time before they get off.Henry David Thoreau
I was never less alone thanwhen by myself.Edward Gibbon
Far from the madding crowd'signoble strife.Thomas Gray
Love does not consist in gazingat each other, but in lookingtogether in the same direction.Antoine De Saint-Exupery
I was never less alone thanwhen by myself.Edward Gibbon
Far from the madding crowd'signoble strife.Thomas Gray

1-5: A WHITE TRIANGLE IS SEEN; IT HAS
GOLDEN WINGS
Commentary: ‘A White Triangle’ with ‘Golden Wings’ is a
spiritually uplifting image. It is hard to know exactly what theclairvoyant Elsie Wheeler saw when she received this image,but it could be that she saw the vision of a moth—the WhiteTriangle Tortrix which has gold colored wings. The Symbol itimplies the possibility of being able to raise yourself above the
ordinary, using your natural gifts to find a new perspective intowhat’s going on. What’s needed is an uplifted view to expandyour scope of awareness.
Oracle: This is a beautiful Symbol that indicates that you don’thave to feel stuck in the present situation - you can rise above itto something more spiritual, beautiful and joyful. It can picturean eagerness for spiritual integration. At this time there maybe a need not to ground your visions, but allow them the freeflight of imagination. However, sometimes the drive for spiritualintegration or the longing for ecstatic experiences can cause afeeling of being out of touch with reality. It is important topersevere through any feelings of disorientation until a new
sense of balance is discovered—then the grounding of yourvision (or situation) can take place naturally. Use your imaginationand remember to integrate the three agencies: body, mind andspirit. ‘A White Triangle With Golden Wings’ is a wonderful imageor mandala for meditation. Drawing it on a piece of paper andhanging it up on the wall may well bring some amazing insightsinto the situation or the question that has brought you to theOracle. Seeking harmony will cause things to move, sometimesin a very surprising way!
Keywords: Inspiration and zeal. Feeling elevated and inspiredthrough spiritual or creative agencies. Flying to a greaterperspective. Taking off. Purity of thought and expression. Angelicforms. Creative imagination. Self-transcendence. Finding newdimensions of experience. Illusions of sight. Visions. Untetheredimaginations. Ascension. Ascended beings. Moths. Butterflies.Flying Machines.
The Caution: Not noticing your own down-to-earth needsor the needs of those around you. Losing the plot. Escapism.Forgetting about the requirements and desires of the body.
Being ungrounded. The space cadet. Things that aren’t basedin reality.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 5
You cannot depend on youreyes when your imagination isout of focus.Mark Twain
Love and desire are the spirit’swings to great deeds.Goethe
I know of no more encouragingfact than the unquestionableability of man to elevate his life
by conscious endeavor.Henry David Thoreau
Scully: Another Bermuda
Triangle?
Mulder: It’s more like a wrinklein time..The X-Files
He who has imaginationwithout learning has wings but
no feet.Horace
You see things as they are and
ask ‘Why’?! dream things as they neverwere and ask ‘Why not’?George Bernard Shaw
And I said, oh that! had wingslike a dove! For then would I fly
away, and be at rest.The Bible

1-6: A SQUARE BRIGHTLY LIGHTED ON ONE
SIDE
Commentary: ‘A Square Brightly Lighted on One Side’ is a Symbolof containment, walls and boundaries. A four-sided structure canlead to feeling contained, boxed in, trapped or claustrophobic ina place or situation. However, the ‘Square’ of this Symbol is not
completely walled in; it is being lit up ‘On One Side’, which shows
there are solutions and a way out. It indicates creative solutions
are at hand, if one will turn their attention to that possibility.
Oracle: In the situation facing you there’s a need to not concern
yourself too much with one side of an issue, even though you
may feel boxed in with little sign of resolution. Look around witha positive, problem-solving attitude, and apply simple, activesolutions. There ¢s a way out of your dilemma, although at first
it may not be very obvious. It is important not to surrender tofrustrations and limitations. As an exercise, try drawing an imageof a square with one side not drawn in. Label each of the sides witha part of the problem that makes you feel trapped and constricted.What part of your problem, or the solution, could you write in
the fourth ‘Brightly Lighted’ side? What are your possibilities forfree movement in this situation? There is a ‘Lighted’ illuminationand a solution if you turn your attention to it. Moving towards that‘Light’ and refusing to be limited can lead to a sense of freedomand security to do what you need to do. Open a window, turnon a light or open the curtains. Relinquishing the experience of
“bouncing off the walls” will most likely bring you to the placewhere you belong and the answers that you seek.
Keywords: Illuminated solutions that provide ways out of tightsituations. Having to put up walls to protect or defend versustaking down the barriers. Putting all your eggs in one basket.Feeling fully contained. Walls and fences. Boxes. Understanding
the borders of one’s activities. Looking for stabilization. Lightingup dark corners. Sunshine. Stepping outside the square or feeling
there is no square. Moving out. Windows and doors. Rubik’s
Cube.
The Caution: Surrendering, feeling trapped. Seeing only oneside. Bouncing around, feeling like there’s no way out. Internalstruggles that prevent seeing solutions. Not acknowledgingor expressing true feelings. Desperately wanting to escape
tight situations. Fear of ambush. Fear of attack from behind.Claustrophobia. Padded cells. Painting oneself into a corner.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 6
Fresh activity is the only means
of overcoming adversity.
Johann Wolfgang Von Goethe
Conformity is the jailer offreedom and the enemy ofgrowth.John F. Kennedy
Within yourself deliverancemust be searched for, becauseeach man makes his own
prison.
Sir Edwin Arnold
Aman will be imprisonedin aroom with a door that’sunlocked and opens inwards, as
long as it does not occur to him
to pull rather than push.Ludwig Wittgenstein
Room Service? Send up a largerroom.Groucho Marx
There comes a time ina man’slife when to get where he has to go-if there are no doors or windows, he walks through a
wall.
Bernard Malamud
Light can penetrate dark, but
dark can't penetrate light.Kryon
It’s futile to gaze at the world
through a car window.Albert Einstein

1-7: A MAN SUCCESSFULLY EXPRESSING
HIMSELF INTWO WORLDS AT ONCE
Commentary: ‘A Man Successfully Expressing Himself in TwoWorlds at Once’ shows someone having the ability to be versatile
and adaptable. When operating in ‘Two Worlds’, one’s life mayseem divided with divergent responsibilities, needs and urges.As this image implies that this person is ‘Successfully ExpressingHimself’, it shows that this is a time when it is possible, andprobably necessary, to cope with separate or diverse areas of
life.
Oracle: You have the ability, or the challenge, to shift your focusfrom one thing to another when it is necessary. There is also thedrive, determination and focus not to run out of energy. However,
there is a need to be careful not to scatter your energies, as
this may lead to wasting time and losing valuable opportunities
for growth. Remember to be versatile and adaptable. There isoften the need for a form of balance between the emotional,spiritual and material arenas. It’s through being clear and trueto the difference between these two areas, these ‘Two Worlds’,that great things can be achieved. For instance, one can have
a “straight” job during the day, and be doing something reallyunusual during the rest of the time, or live between two homes,two cities, two relationships, etc. On another level, there couldbe a realization of operating on the physical, more everyday levelof your life whilst having messages coming through from morespiritual realms. You can be successful in anything you undertakenow, as long as you are happy with the compromises that maybe asked of both you and others and the splitting up of areas ofyour life. Are you enjoying the best of both ‘Worlds’?
Keywords: Integrating the spiritual with the material. Balancingthings. Doing juggling acts. Moving through people’s lives andsocial stratas. Translations of words and thoughts from one areaof life to another. Having separate family situations. Living adual life. Being adaptable. Moonlighting. Alternate realities.Shifting focus when necessary. Versatility. Looking elsewhere.
The Caution: Fooling yourself that you can be all things todifferent people, but eventually failing in one or both. Exhaustionthrough trying to achieve too much. Deception, if allegiances arenot clear. Infidelity and fickleness. Scattering of interests withlittle being achieved. Bigamy. Two-faced. Lies and masquerades.
Feeling like one doesn’t truly fit in anywhere. Not being able to stop.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 7
Think like a man of action, andact like a man of thought.
Henri L. Bergson
I've been trying for some time todevelop a lifestyle that doesn'trequire my presence.Gary Trudeau
Any woman who has a career
and a family automatically
develops something in the
way of two personalities,like two sides of a dollar bill,each different in design... herproblem is to keep one fromdraining the life from the other.
Ivy Baker Priest
There are no elements sodiverse that they cannot be
joined in the heart of aman.Jean Giraudoux
I'm happy when I'm juggling,but |feel like I've gone from, like,3 balls to 10 bowling balls, But,that’s a good problem.! don't
really have a complaint about
that.
Kirstie Alley
It is the nature of ambition to
make men liars and cheats, tohide the truth in their breasts,and show, like jugglers, anotherthing in their mouths.Sallust

1-8: A WOMAN'S HAT WITH STREAMERS
BLOWN BY THE EAST WIND
Commentary: ‘A Woman’s Hat With Streamers Blown By the EastWind’. The ‘East Wind’ often implies messages or forces comingin seemingly from out of the blue. These messages could be aboutspirit or spiritual teachings. There’s a degree of gentleness hereand adaptability to external forces. Eastern philosophies can come
to mind as a way of thinking through this experience. Indeed,some of the oriental systems of thought may play a major part
in this situation.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, you may feel as though you'rebeing blown a little off course from what you originally set out todo. This can happen even more if you or someone you're dealing
with can’t make up their mind, or are constantly shifting theirperspective. There’s a need to adjust continually to the direction
of outside forces. Shifts of mind and attitude may happen as aresult or may, indeed, need to happen. Any changes are best
greeted and considered playfully and lightly. Allow wisdom tolead you to new and different solutions, but be wary of actingsuperficially. Look to see if your mind keeps changing course and
blowing you off center. If you do lose your way temporarily, beassured that you can be steered back onto the right course with
just a little contempiation on the direction your life is meant to betaking you. Take your time, be patient and act with the feminineforces of gentility, grace and dignity. This Symbol indicates that
you are somewhat protected from the more disturbing elements ofyour situation. Is someone running after something or someone,trying to retrieve it whilst it just keeps being ‘Blown’ furtheraway? In what direction is this ‘Wind’ blowing you?
Keywords: Attuning oneself through Eastern philosophies.Protective guidance. Balloons and hot-air ballooning. Compasses.Weather vanes and wind chimes. East meets west. Being adaptableto the moment. The winds of time and change. Shifts in the‘Wind’ bringing shifts in attitude or direction. Hats, scarves,streamers.
The Caution: Only accepting solutions that satisfy selfish orsocial needs. Insincere and easily blown around. Fickleness.
Being tossed around by momentary patterns in the “weather”.Conflicting ideals. Forgetting things in a moment. Being easily
distracted. Changing course midstream. Being blown off thepath, thereby losing ones center or way. Breezes that disturb
ones equilibrium. Losinng yourself in other’s opinions.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 8
lama feather for each wind
that blows.William Shakespeare
Our plans miscarry becausethey have no aim.When youdon't know what harbor you'reaiming for, no wind is the right
wind.Seneca
Like a kite cut from the string,
lightly the soul of my youth hastaken flight.Ishikawa Takuboku
Distracted by what is faraway, he does not see his nose.Malagasy Proverb
If the winds of fortune aretemporarily blowing against
you, remember that you canharness them and make them
carry you toward your definitepurpose through the use of your
imagination.Napolean Hill
Ifyou pay nervous attention
to other people’s opinions,maneuver to obtain theirindulgence and to stand high
in their esteem, you will be
whisked about in their windsand you will lose yourself.Jo Coubert
A great wind is blowingand that gives you either
imagination or a headache.
Catherine Il

1-9: A SEER GAZES INTENTLY INTO A
CRYSTAL BALL BEFORE HIM
Commentary: ‘A Seer Gazes Intently Into a Crystal Ball BeforeHim’ shows the talent, the need and the tools for intense focus andconcentration. The ‘Seer’ sees many things as he ‘Gazes Intently’,
looking for clues through a narrow focus in the ‘Crystal Ball’.
Using a ‘Crystal Ball’ is his method of receiving information from
the world of spirit. By looking deeply into a situation, images canform and meaning can be revealed. This enhances the ability toobserve things that others may miss.
Oracle: In your situation the whole picture is probably right
before you but you may need help in interpreting its meaning.
With a little concentrated effort, you will be able to see thingsmore clearly. Find or retrieve information and clues by reallylooking at the structure of things. What are you doing and howare you focusing towards what you really want? The more younarrow your ‘Gaze’, and the more you trust in your own intuition,the sharper and clearer the focus will become. What is yourunconscious mind trying to tell you? Find something to focuson, something beautiful, illuminating or inspiring in some way.Consider what messages your psyche is trying to bring you. If you
have a dream, write it down. Drawing this Symbol may show anability to see things ahead of their time. Tools of divination suchas crystal balls, tarot cards, the runes, the I Ching, the SabianSymbols or anything you have at your disposal will help you
find the answers. However, there may be a need for caution ifyou are constantly seeking answers from tarot cards, astrology,
clairvoyants, etc. Perhaps you should know when to call a halt,examining your own goals rather than merely getting answersfrom other people. Whatever, be patient and have a good,long, insightful look. The steadier your ‘Gaze’ the more will berevealed.
Keywords: Flashes of inspiration. Tuning in and looking withinfor answers. Creative visualizations. Aura readings. Cutting
through irrelevant messages. Looking carefully at structure.Seeking perfection. Clairvoyance. Illumination and deep insights.Looking ahead to see the signs.
The Caution: Confused by literal meanings. Not seeing thesymbolic message. Always looking this way and that, not at the
center. Getting lost in the big picture. Daydreaming and ignoringwhat’s really going on. Obsessing over what may happen. Needingto know what’s coming up. Being impatient.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 9
The only limits are, as always,those of vision.James Broughton
We are always in search ofthe redeeming formula, thecrystallizing thought.Etty Hillesum
People who see a drawing inthe “New Yorker” will thinkautomatically that it’s funnybecause it is a cartoon. If they
see it in a museum, they think it
is artistic; and if they find it ina
fortune cookie they think it is aprediction.Saul Steinberg
Everyone sees the unseen in
proportion to the clarity of his
heart, and that depends uponhow much he has polished it.
Whoever has polished it moresees more — more unseenforms become manifest to him.
Jalal-Uddin Rumi
Refrain from asking what is
going to happen tomorrow,
and every day that fortunegrants you, count as gain.Horace
It is said that the present ispregnant with the future.Voltaire
The most pathetic person inthe world is someone who has
sight, but has no vision.Helen Keller

1-10: A TEACHER GIVES NEW SYMBOLIC
FORMS TO TRADITIONAL IMAGES
Commentary: ‘A Teacher Gives New Symbolic Forms to TraditionalImages’. This Symbol shows someone who can take a thing or asituation and transform and update it. The “Traditional Images’can be ideas, objects, icons, beliefs; things we are familiar with.That a ‘Teacher Gives New Symbolic Forms’ shows the ability to
restructure, reinterpret and present them more in tune with the
times. It indicates a need for a fresh and revitalized perspectiveon things. This is what Marc Edmund Jones and Elsie Wheeler didwith the Sabian Symbol “experiment”. This book has taken the
Symbols a step further, giving them further depth and insight.
Oracle: In the situation facing you there’s a need to analyze
and perhaps rewrite what has been observed and learned
in the traditional roles we live out. Things may need a new
interpretation to bring them up to speed with today’s thinking.Someone in this situation may have truly original ideas, but there’s
a possibility of holding these back, feeling it has all been done
before. The message here is to allow yourself to be creative andlook for modern answers, seeing things in a different light orfrom a different angle. This may lead to realizations you havenever even considered or imagined. Bringing out something newwill revitalize your situation and affect those around you. Thiscan bring new understandings about people and the way thingswork. There could be a revisioning of how one sees somethinglike marriage, work, relationships, education etc. Sometimes thisrequires one to be daring, to “step outside the box”. Be preparedto take a different stance or look at things from a new and freshperspective. Don’t stick to limitations, either your own or those
others place on you. You may have to make a stand against thosein a higher or more exalted position that think they know morethan you—perhaps they don’t.
Keywords: New dimensions breaking old thought forms orbehavior. Quantum science. Innovation and re-creation. Workingwith educational tools. Finding new inspiration. Being “ahead ofone’s time”. New-age consciousness. Ideas out of the past for thefuture. Sticking one’s neck out. Rewriting the book.
The Caution: Rejecting old ideas because they are old insteadof reforming them. Throwing things of worth out, withoutexamining them. Having little respect for things that are reallyworthwhile or traditional. Sticking with the tried and true, nomatter what. Thinking that no one will be interested in yourideas. Heresy. Dogma.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 10
It is better to fail in originalitythan to succeed in imitation.
Herman Melville
Originality does not consistin saying what no one has
ever said before, but in sayingexactly what you think yourself.James Stephens
Adam was the only man who,when he said a good thing,
knew that nobody had said itbefore him.Mark Twain
It is the fate of new truths tobegin as heresies and end assuperstitions.Thomas H. Huxley
Half my life is an act of revision.John Irving
Civilization had. too manyrules for me, so! did my best torewrite them.Bill Cosby
Great innovators and originalthinkers and artists attract
the wrath of mediocrities aslightning rods draw the flashes.Theodor Reik
I have for instance among mypurchases ... several original
Mona Lisas and all painted
(according to the signature) by
the great artist Kodak.Spike Milligan

1-11: THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC
OR THE RULER OF ONE’S COUNTRY
Commentary: ‘The President’ or the ‘Ruler’ pictures a personwho’s in control, has a sense of authority and is called upon todo the right thing for his people, his ‘Country’ and indeed, hisposition or office. This ‘President’ or ‘Ruler’ has the right, and theduty, to call the shots in their territory or sphere of operation.
Oracle: This Symbol says that it’s time to take charge, and to
expand your base of operations. There may be a need to take
control and command respect from others by showing that you
have the confidence to make your own decisions. This is your
opportunity to prove that you have the integrity and the necessaryenergy to get things done. It’s also a great time to bring a senseof order and discipline into your life - physically, spiritually or
emotionally. It is important to grasp the boundaries of your
influence and power as this will lead to a strong and renewed
sense of self. Who’s in charge of operations in this situation—is
it you or another? What can you do to strengthen your position
and show that you can be relied upon to get the job done? Ifsomeone is trying to take your sense of individuality and poweraway through being bossy and in control, what can be done toreclaim your authority? Giving your power away to someone canlead to being taken advantage of in many ways. The underminingof one’s authority can lead to a loss of position and self-respect.
Stay in a relationship only if it gives you a good sense of yourself.
Whoever is involved in this situation should wield their powerin a careful and thoughtful way. There may be a need to acceptpeople’s recognition of you as a person in control of your ownlife and destiny. Doing this with dignity can lead to a whole newsense of self, position and personal power.
Keywords: Developing willpower. Inner power, disciplineand integrity. Discipline of thoughts, emotions and actions.Leadership, power and ability along with their responsibilities.
Accepting responsibility for one’s actions. “Calling the shots”.
Rulers, presidents, leaders. Taking charge. The need for loyal
subjects. Being voted in. The democratic process.
The Caution: Taking control. Lording it over everyone. Beingoverbearing. Not allowing others to be in charge of their own lives,health or situation. Egotistical and self-centered. Underminingothers through a lack of self-awareness or confidence. Being
larger than life. Dictators and tyrants. Military Governments.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 11
What governmentis the best?That which teaches us togovern ourselves.Goethe
No man is free who is notamaster of himself.Epictetus
He is free... who knows howto keep in his own hands thepower to decide.Salvador De Madriaga
To put the world in order, we
must first put the nation in order;to put the nation in order, we
must put the family in order; to
put the family in order, we mustcultivate our personal life; and
to cultivate our personal life, wemust first set our hearts right.
Confucius
He that would govern othersfirst should be the master ofhimself.Philip Massinger
He is not fit to command othersthat cannot command himself.
Proverb
I am, indeed, a king, for! knowhow to rule myself.
Pietro Aretino
It is a strange desire to seekpower and to lose liberty.Francis Bacon

1-12: A FLOCK OF WILD GEESE
Commentary: The ‘Flock of Wild Geese’ is a beautifully inspiringimage of brotherhood and Aquarian ideals. Watching them flycan inspire feelings of group cohesion and the beauty of naturalrhythms. The ‘Flock’ shows the need to join with others in ajourney or a quest. Remember to take your cue from the “Wild
Geese’ - when they fly in formation, they take turns in leadingthe way. Likewise, when one gets tired or sick, another takesthe lead.
Oracle: Whilst this is a Symbol of working together with others,be wary of losing your sense of individuality. There may be afeeling of wanting to leave behind previous life constraints, tobe able to spread your wings, to seek freedom from difficulties.However, there’s a need to take note of “seasonal” variationsthat are happening around you. Obviously there is a time to
“fly” and a time to relax and recover. You can’t always be on thego; you must look after your needs for nourishment and sleep.‘Geese’ are known for forming lifelong partnerships, so marriageor partnership may indeed be a consideration in this situation.However, it can sometimes be hard to “ground” relationships.This Symbol is very much about brotherhood, respect and gettingalong with others. Setting out with those of like mind can lead toan expanded view of life or indeed a whole new adventure. Still,
continually taking off on tangents with others whilst you couldbe making more permanent and loyal commitments to the long
term can really test relationships. Remember to be aware of yourresponsibilities, to both yourself and others in the group. Knowthat there is support out there for you; just ask.
Keywords: Aquarian ideals of brotherhood. Attunement to
planetary rhythms. Spirit liberated from matter. Wanting to take
off by one’s self, but not being able to. Focused group activityand support. Group mentality, action and agreement. Intuitionand telepathy. Choreography. Camaraderie. “Honking” to egg
each other on. Flying in the slipstream. Responses to seasonalchanges. Migrating at the right times. Travelling. Herds, gangs.broods. Flying in formation.
The Caution: Following the leader without knowing where one’sgoing. Never knowing where to land, or where to ground oneself.
Wild goose chases. Not recognizing the brotherhood in humanity.
Losing a sense of individual identity. Going off in the wrong
direction. Being lost in the crowd. Beiing one of a gaggle.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 12
Birds of a feather flock together.Saying
There is a destiny that makes us
brothers, No one goes his wayalone; All that we send into thelives of others, Comes back intoour own.Edwin Markham
I met a hundred men goingto Delhi and everyone is mybrother.Indian Saying
A goose flies by a chart whichthe Royal Geographical Society
could not mend.
Oliver Wendell Holmes
Don't refuse to go onanoccasional wild goose chase.
That's what wild geese aremade for.
Henry S. Haskins
Cross in a crowd and the
crocodile won't eat you.
Malagasy Proverb
Likeness causes liking.Romanian Proverb
Not the cry, but the flight of the
wild duck, leads the flock to flyand follow.Chinese Proverb
Why do you lead mea wildgoose chase?Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra

1-13: A BOMB WHICH FAILED TO EXPLODE
IS NOW SAFELY HIDDEN FROM
DISCOVERY
Commentary: ‘A Bomb Which Failed to Explode’ shows potentially
explosive energies are around which haven’t gone off yet that maynow be ‘Safely’ defused. Things are “safe” from detection, butdangerous elements are possibly still within. Handling ‘A Bomb’needs to be done with extreme care and caution. That the ‘Bomb’is ‘Now Safely Hidden From Discovery’ shows it’s still potentiallyexplosive, but has somehow been made safe. The duration of theapparent calm depends on whether the “defusing” is done withattention to all of the details involved, no matter how small.
Oracle: Has this situation been defused or is still likely to ‘Explode’? Unexploded ‘Bombs’ can be like grenades - ready
to go off at any moment, spraying everyone with shrapnel. The‘Bomb’ is often something of an emotional nature, but can also bethe suppression of a truth that has emotional side effects. There
may be time to eliminate the impending explosion before it isdiscovered, bringing relief and release. If, however, things remain
charged up, the result could be depression or internal anger andcalling in the “bomb squad” may be necessary. This could mean
the help of friends, family, and assistants. Calling in your ownemotional, mental or spiritual ‘Bomb’ squad allows you to take
control of your emotional nature. Ifa ‘Bomb’ is ‘Discovered’, it may
point to the guilty party who will have to explain their behavior.Did you plant this ‘Bomb’ or did someone else? Take time to reflecton rash emotional decisions or situations that, if ‘Exploded’, coulddamage much more than was intended. Getting everything undercontrol and safely out of the way will reveal how you can handlethings. Act with integrity. People involved can learn a lot fromhow they react, especially when under pressure.
Keywords: Pressure valves. Getting away with something.Tantrums and frustration. Tempers that simmer. Explosive
behavior. Bombs, explosions. Sudden and forceful events.Intelligence organizations, CIA, FBI, ASIO, etc. Valuable lessons of
self-restraint. Relief from problems. Discharging nervous energy.Security checks. Last minute escapes.
The Caution: Suppressing stress or illness. Doing inappropriatethings and thinking the secret safe. Repressing emotions. Undefined
anger. Pressure cooker energy that needs to be released slowly.Explosions damaging more than expected. Activists. Deceptionbehind one’s back. Clash of ideals. Terrorism.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 13
Anger will never disappear solong as thoughts of resentment
are cherished in the mind.Anger will disappear just as
soon as thoughts of resentment
are forgotten.Buddha
How much more grievous arethe consequences of anger thanthe causes of it.Marcus Aurelius
“I lose my temper, but it’s allover ina minute,” said thestudent. “So is the hydrogen
bomb,”! replied. “But think
of the damage it produces!”
George Sweeting
I do not like this word “bomb.” It
isnot a bomb. It is a device that
is exploding.Jacques le Blanc—Frenchambassador to New Zealand
on Greenpeace’s RainbowWarrior bombing.
As in an explosion, I would erupt with all the wonderfulthings | saw and understood in this world.Boris Pasternak
When the habitually eventempered suddenly fly into apassion, that explosion is aptto be more impressive than theoutburst of the most violent
amongst us.Margery Allingham

1-14: A SERPENT COILING NEAR A MAN
AND A WOMAN
Commentary: ‘A Serpent Coiling Near a Man and a Woman’symbolizes the story of the “temptation” of Adam and Eve in theGarden of Eden. The ‘Serpent’ offered Adam and Eve the gift ofself-knowledge. However, this “knowledge” also revealed to themthat they were naked and that this was sinful. The ‘Serpent’ wassaid to have brought them both knowledge and guilt. The “snake”can be symbolic of anything that induces fear or negativity into
a situation. On the other hand, what the “snake” symbolizescan bring a healing and a profound sense of, or need for, self-knowledge. This Symbol can show the celebration of the physicalbody and the enjoyment of another through all of the senses.
Oracle: Something or someone may be coming between twopeople. ‘A Serpent’ is shown ‘Coiling Near a Man and a Woman’;
this can be a third person or some kind of threat. It can bringjealousy, resentment, distrust or separation. What comes betweenpeople may be an idea or a belief system, such as the fear of
God. It may be some insight or knowledge that has come to
light; it may be another person or a lover. Temptation, fear andpassion can all too easily get in the way of any relationship, old ornew. It can sometimes be difficult to tell exactly what’s comingbetween people; it could be an emotion, psychological conditionor memory. The ‘Serpent’ in this situation is not necessarily in a
threatening pose, yet it can still induce a sense of fear or tensionbecause of assumptions and prejudice. Snakes by their very nature
don’t have to do anything to be intimidating—they arouse fear,uneasiness and other, more extreme, reactions by their merepresence. Maybe one needs to let go of inhibitions in order tofind new depths and ways of relating. If the fear of the “snake”were to disappear, would you then be able to return to your own“Garden of Eden”? Alone, or as a couple?
Keywords: Enticement. Allurement. Revealing archetypalknowledge that may not be “socially acceptable”. Temptations.The Adam and Eve story. Jealousy. Sexual instincts. Life and deathissues. Relating based on control. Kundalini energy. Realizingpolarity. Individuation. Eating the Apple. The “knowledge of goodand evil”. Having one’s eyes opened. Marking one’s territory.
The Caution: Feeling guilty. Being afraid to express one’s feelings.Basic instincts and sexual energy. The fear of knowledge, secretor otherwise. Using sexuality as a control device. Disgust ordistrust of the body. Sexually transmitted diseases. Hiding nudity
or sexuality. Being thrown out of paradise.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 14
Religion has done love a greatservice by making it a sin.Anatole France
It was from the rind of
one apple tasted that the
knowledge of good and evil astwo twins cleaving togetherleaped forth into the world.John Milton
This desire to govern a woman-it lies very deep,and men and
women.must fight it togetherbefore they shall enter thegarden.E. M. Forster
Forbidden fruit is sweet.
Traditional Proverb
Adam was human; he didn’twant the apple for the apple'ssake; he wanted it because it
was forbidden.
Mark Twain
Adam and Eve had many
advantages, but the principalone was that they escapedteething.Mark Twain
There are several goodprotections against temptation,but the most popular is
cowardice.
Mark Twain
Do not bite at the bait ofpleasure until you know thatthere is no hook.Thomas Jefferson

1-15: AN INDIAN WEAVING A BLANKET IN
THE LIGHT OF THE SETTING SUN
Commentary: ‘An Indian Weaving a Blanket’ shows that people
need to take time out to do the things that aren’t particularlyexciting or rewarding on a large scale, but do, however, providefeelings of contentment, warmth, safety and security. In ‘Weavingthe Blanket’, the ‘Indian’ not only creates something that is useful,
but weaves into it images of their life and history. Often thepatterns and pictures woven into it easily identify the tribe this‘Blanket’ comes from. Being ‘In the Light of the Setting Sun’,there may be a feeling of the energy of the light, the ‘Sun’, fading,leaving little time to achieve what needs to be done.
Oracle: By practicing our skills in an artful way there can bea celebration and remembrance of the experiences that led tothis moment. Doing one’s chores with enjoyment leads to inner
contentment and a sense of self. In contemplation or meditationone can find peace, relaxation and a feeling of meaning andaccomplishment. Taking time to do the job well is important,as is reverence for those things in your possession. Even small
contributions in life are important and your integrity should notbe compromised. A lot of effort goes into ‘Weaving a Blanket’ andthere may be no worthwhile shortcuts to its completion. Do you
need to bring many strands from different areas or parts of your
life together? What materials are available to you? It’s best to relax
into your activities. Take time to enjoy the tranquility of dusk,possibly catching sight of a sunset. Conditions will change withtime and you can get back to more exciting ventures. Remember
to” weave your dream’.
Keywords: The fabric of one’s being. Traditional pastimesand skills. Weaving security and independence. Patience andgentle handcrafting. Stories, especially those handed down.Tales and traditions. Consideration of one’s unique history.Weaving, spinning looms. The warp and weft of life. One’s lifestory—past and present. Being focused on one’s tasks. Colours,dyes. Threads.
The Caution: Underestimating skills of self-expression incomparison with intellectual skills. Allowing dull routines toovercome. Feeling one hasn’t got much to contribute. Inabilityto apply to routine and necessary tasks. Being too “full-time”about one’s work. Feeling insecure no matter what the situation.
Selling off one’s integrity. Finding that it’s too late in the day to
get anything done. Not knowing when to stop.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 15
Man was made for Joy andWoe,And when this we rightly know,Thro the World we safely go.Joy and Woe are woven fine,
A clothing for the soul divine.
William Blake
We sleep, but the loom of life never stops and the patternwhich was weaving when thesun went down is weavingwhen it comes up tomorrow.Henry Ward Beecher
Humankind has not woventhe web of life. We are but onethread within it. Whatever
we do to the web, we do to ourselves.All things are bound
together.All things connect.Chief Seattle
For the American Indian, the
ability of all creatures to sharein the process of ongoingcreation makes all thingssacred.Paula Gunn Allen
Life is what we make it, always
has been, always will be.Grandma Moses
America is woven of many
strands.! would recognisethem and let it so remain. Ourfate is to become one, and yet
many. This is not prophecy, but
description.Ralph Gleeson

1-16: BRIGHTLY CLAD BROWNIES
DANCING IN THE WARM DYING
LIGHT
Commentary: ‘Brightly Clad Brownies Dancing in the Warm
Dying Light’ is a wonderful and rather mischievous image.‘Brownies’ are nature spirits that come to help us with our
work. The concept of ‘Brownies’ has existed in many culturesfor a long time. They lived with humans and sometimes theywere said to live in the attic. They often helped the humans inthe kitchen; they got the fire going by blowing on it, took careof the human’s children and saw that the food was properlycooked. But nowadays, with the use of electric machines andlights, ‘Brownies’ are disappearing more and more. However itis said some of them still try to stay around. Although mostly
associated with housework, we can call on their help in manydifferent ways. Nature spirits are often around us, particularly ifwe believe in them, welcome them and trust in their presence.They are ‘Dancing in the Warm Dying Light’ inferring that whileintuitive powers are at a real high, the available physical energyis not; it is sunset, and the close of the day.
Oracle: You may be feeling tired and in need of help to get
everything, or even anything, done. Have faith, and call on anyassistance you can as this Symbol implies that you will surelyreceive it. This Symbol shows that you are being guided andprotected. Friends or people may arrive unexpectedly to helpout at the “last moment”. Sometimes the people who turn up tohelp are “strangers”. Trust that things will be okay even if thingsfeel “too late in the day”. Of course, you could be a ‘Brownie’for someone else, assisting others when they need it. How about‘Dancing’? It can refresh and revitalize the spirit and invite loveand light into your life.
Keywords: Reveling in nature. Believing in guides. Fairies andnature spirits. The wonder and awe of nature. The setting sun.Last minute preparations before evening. The psychic magic ofdusk. Light that dances. Unseen guardians. Receiving guidanceand help. Seeing the invisible. Help at the last minute. Fairygodmothers. Questions of: what is the “real” world?
The Caution: Self-delusions. Missing the true picture of what’shappening in the “real-world”. Losing the plot. Relying on
others, including angels, nature spirits, etc., instead of yourself.
Neglecting responsibilities. Crying wolf. Using people.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 16
The worst thing about work
in the house or home is that
whatever you do is destroyed,laid waste or eaten within
twenty-four hours.
Lady Kasluck
Housework is what a womandoes that nobody notices unlessshe hasn't done it.Evan Esar
Housekeeping ain’t no joke.Louisa May Alcott
Few tasks are more like thetorture of Sisyphus thanhousework, with its endlessrepetition: the clean becomessoiled; the soiled is made clean,over and over, day after day.Simone de Beauvoir
At worst,a house unkemptcannot be so distressing as a life
unlived.Rose Macaulay
For the elemental creaturesgo about my table to and fro.William Butler Yeats
All of us, at certain moments of
our lives, need to take adviceand receive help from other
people.Alexis Carrel
To the man who himself strives
earnestly, God also lends a
helping hand.Aeschylus

1-17: TWO PRIM SPINSTERS SITTING
TOGETHER IN SILENCE
Commentary: ‘Two Prim Spinsters’ are shown ‘Sitting Togetherin Silence’. This Symbol shows people that know and understandeach other, without the need for chatter. Feelings of contentmentcan come in time spent with a special friend, someone who youfeel completely at ease with. A real sense of understanding ofwhat the other is feeling and thinking can be a central quality ofstrong companionship. Of course, the ‘Two Spinsters’ may not
be together through choice, but rather through life situations.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, remember that it is easy
to become socially isolated when you hold on to conservative,judgmental, or moral ideas. Ask yourself if there is a select,restricted group with whom you are associating. Look for anyOpportunities to open you up to deeper and further levels of
communication. Be wary that a false sense of security doesn’tisolate you from change and growth. People don’t want totalk to each other if they feel their relationship has becomeboring, with nowhere to go and without much of a future. Ifpeople have nothing to say to each other should they spend
their time together? Unresolved issues may be too difficult todiscuss, they can lie beneath the surface causing fear, isolationand loneliness. ‘Silence’ or quietness can conceal frustration orfeelings of sacrifice and loss. If there are no children in theirlives and they are said to be ‘Spinsters’,, unmarried women, isthat an issue? There is an old-fashioned belief which says: It isimportant to our friends to believe that we are unreservedlyfrank or honest with them and important to friendship that we
are not. That may have suited conditions in the past, but now wehave to be more open, honest and communicative, with othersand with ourselves.
Keywords: The need to loosen up emotional blockages. Thestruggle to hold onto one’s original identity. Compromise becauseof social expectations. Meditations that communicate. Exclusive
relationships. Relationships that have a quiet “knowing”.Dignified silence. Inner withdrawal. Communicating throughbody language.
The Caution: Emotional isolation. Refusing to accept relationship.Pretending to be someone that one is not. Disapproval of younger,more vital energies. Being fussy and judgmental. Chattering that
is not conducive to growth or true relating. Gossip. Difficultyin communicating. Being shutoff, or shutdown. The loss of joyand spontaneity.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 17
Silence gives consent.Pope Boniface VIII
Silence is one of the hardestarguments to refute.Josh Billings
When you have nothing to say,
say nothing.Charles Caleb Colton
Wisdom is knowing when tospeak your mind and when tomind your speech,
Evangel
The best mirror is an old friend.
Proverb
Television has proved that
people will look at anything
rather than each other.
Ann Landers
For the friendship of two, thepatience of one is required.Indian Proverb
Good men are scarce.
Proverb
We are growing serious, and letme tell you, that’s the next stepto being dull.
Joseph Addison
The loneliest woman in the
world is awoman without aclose woman friend.George Santayana

1-18: AN EMPTY HAMMOCK HANGS
BETWEEN TWO LOVELY TREES
Commentary: ‘An Empty Hammock’ is shown hanging ‘Between
Two Lovely Trees’. The image of the ‘Hammock’ conjures upthe allure of a peaceful and safe environment. It can bring —
memories of better days, and of restful periods when therewas an opportunity to enjoy rest and relaxation. The ‘EmptyHammock’ is an invitation to jump in, relax, and take time outto enjoy nature. Time spent lounging in the garden or in naturecan revitalize the senses. Often solutions to problems can come
whilst lying in a hammock or enjoying the garden.
Oracle: You may have been too hard on yourself, or others, lately.It is not a crime to rest or take a short pause, and there should beno guilt in taking time out in order to regain strength. Emotions,minds and bodies need relaxation; time to let the weight of life’sproblems lift from our shoulders. You needn't sacrifice youropportunity to rest for something or someone else. Look at your
situation and take note of whether you are always on the go. Ifso, how can you relax and enjoy your life? Invitations to take a
holiday, or simply rest, are likely to come if you are thinking that
is what you need right now. Has the ‘Hammock’ been beckoningyou for some years? By denying yourself rest you can forget how
to enjoy a moment off, or even fool yourself into not being able to
relax when you do get the opportunity. This Symbol is probablyreminding you that there needs to be some rest right now inorder to maintain harmony. On the other hand, it is possible thatsomeone has actually been lounging around or goofing off a littletoo much lately. A lack of energy or mental or physical motivationcan make the hours go by sometimes very slowly without gettinganything truly productive done. Exercise is as necessary as rest.Keeping things in moderation is the key.
Keywords: Detachment. Abandonment. Having too much to do
to be able to rest. Issues to do with sleep. Sleeping difficulties.Planning for days off or for retirement. Hustle and bustle.Memories of loved ones. Lounging or sitting under trees. Havingpermission to stop. Time out. Missing a lover. Beds, sheets,pillows, sofas. A favorite chair. Holidays. Trees and gardens.
The Caution: Deliberately pushing when in need of rest OR notbeing involved in life’s complexities. Dodging responsibilities.
Having nowhere to stay rest or retire. Neglecting time for oneself.Too much work and no play. Areas of life which are not fulfilled.Having so much work there’s no time for relationships. Alwaysbeing on the go.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 18
Stop and smell the roses.Old Saying
It is better to wear out than torust out.Richard Cumberland
Sleep is that golden chain thatties health and our bodiestogether.Thomas Dekker
Laziness may appear attractivebut work gives satisfaction.
Anne Frank
No matter how big or soft orwarm your bed is you still have
to get out of it.Grace Slick
Leisure time is that five or sixhours when you sleep at night.
George Allen
If you want your dreams tocome true, don’t sleep.Yiddish Proverb
A change is as good asaholiday.
Old Saying
He that would thrive must riseat five;he that have thrivenmay lie till seven.John Clarke
Laugh and the world laughswith you, snore and you sleep
alone.Anthony Burgess

1-19: A MAGIC CARPET HOVERS OVER
THE DEPRESSING REALITY OF
EVERYDAY LIFE IN AN INDUSTRIAL
AREA
Commentary: ‘A Magic Carpet’ is a wonderfully rich image offantasy and escape. That it ‘Hovers Over the Depressing Reality of
Everyday Life in an Industrial Area’ shows the contrast betweenlife based-on material production and consumption, with itsresulting pollution, and the need for escape to the magic andbeauty of life. The ‘Magic Carpet Hovers’—it observes ugliness,noise and hustle and bustle, without being touched by it.
Oracle: ‘A Magic Carpet’ may be what’s needed in your situation
now. By lifting ourselves above the more ‘Depressing Realities’
that are around us, we can get a better perspective or outcome
about the more difficult issues in our lives. The ‘Magic Carpet’ isactually a vehicle for your imagination and using your imagination
can elevate your understanding, awareness and existence intothe mystic, sometimes fantastic, realms. With this Symbol thereis a clear message that you have the ability to get above, or even
transcend, worry and strife. Things will be revealed to you if youallow creative and spiritual truths into your conscious awareness.
Be wary not to underestimate the potential power in the mostordinary and mundane things; there can be signs of ‘Magic’ inthem. Perhaps you are being an “escapist” or dreaming of theimpossible. Are you trying to use the ‘Magic Carpet’ to see agreater truth? What new ideas can you materialize into your life
in order to lift you out of where you are now? Try sitting on aspecial rug and allow your imagination to fly!
Keywords: Practicing meditation. Finding a vehicle fortranscendence. Elevated views and perspectives. Rising aboveproblems. Astral travel. Meditation or levitation. Lateral thinking
—‘Magic Carpets’ travel sideways. Rugs, carpets, the Middle
East. Fantasy and fiction. Transcending worries. Escaping the
depressing realities of the everyday world.
The Caution: Self defeating detachment. Not being able to copewith the real world. Losing one’s self completely in flights offancy. The longing for escape. The lure of the exotic. Using drugsor alcohol in order to escape drudgery or difficulties. Smog. Filthy
air. Feeling stuck. Pollution and muck. Industrial landscapes.Losing touch with the body and physical realities.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 19
I'll need a magic carpet to getout of this one.Donald Davis
If you surrendered to the air, youcould ride it.Toni Morrison
Aerodynamically thebumblebee shouldn't be able tofly, but the bumblebee doesn't
know that, so it goes on flyinganyway.Mary Kay Ash
If the winds of fortune aretemporarily blowing against
you, remember that you can
harness them and make them
carry you, through the use ofyour imagination.
Napolean Hill
Man's desires are limited by hisperceptions; none can desirewhat he has not perceived.William Blake
A field cannot well be seen from
within the field.Ralph Waldo Emerson
Imagination is a good horseto carry you over the ground— nota flying carpet to set youfree from probability.Robertson Davies
The power of thought—themagic of the mind!.Lord Byron

1-20: A YOUNG GIRL FEEDING BIRDS IN
WINTER
Commentary: ‘A Young Girl Feeding Birds in Winter’ is an imageof care, innocence, nurturing and benevolence. She bringsnourishment to those who need it - this can be physically,
emotionally or spiritually. It is ‘Winter’, which shows that times
may be lean and food or resources scarce. The “Young Girl’ showsthat even when the cold winds are around us, we can find joythrough sharing or doing things for others. Long talks with thosein need, be they family, friends or, indeed, strangers, can bring asense of nurturing, reassurance, satisfaction and love.
Oracle: It can be very rewarding to provide love, reassurance
and nourishment to those who need it. Nonjudgmental help can
lead others to trust and respond, whilst little acts of kindness
can improve people’s lives. Things done for others often have anunexpected spin-off: you can enjoy the sharing and giving, havefun and feel really good about what you’ve done. Nourishmentcan come in the form of food, water, words, advice, etc. Thereare, however, those who stubbornly resist moving on or changingtheir habits even if it is to their own detriment. Someone needshelp, someone who may even be the cause of his or her own
problems. Continued shows of love and dedication may be
required, even when it may be tiring or time-consuming. What
would really happen if you left or withdrew your time, resources
or energy? Are you stepping out into the cold to help others? Becareful that what’s being “fed” is in fact nourishing for thosereceiving it, and not just feeding co-dependence. There may be
a need to be alone to do simple yet compassionate things. Tryfeeding birds outdoors or through open windows and see whatfeelings are triggered.
Keywords: Nurturing innocence. Feeding energy to situationsthat feel cold, hopeless and lost. Small efforts bringing theirrewards. Co-dependent relationships. Nurturing. Helping thoseless fortunate or smaller. Taking time out for others. Doing thingswithout thought of reward. Enjoying nature. Trying to find friendsor company. Bread and water. Soup kitchens. Counselling. Hotvs. cold weather.
The Caution: Wanting to win approval. Creating dependence withothers that has to be maintained. Feeling bleak, lost and alone.The need to continually rescue others. Doing anything in orderto be liked. Finding it difficult to stop giving. Not being able to
say “no”. Feeling used and unrewarded.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 20
No act of kindness, no matter
how small, is ever wasted.Aesop
Ifyou always give, you will
always have.Chinese Proverb
A kind and compassionate actis often its own reward,William John Bennett
The greatest wealth consistsin being charitable and thegreatest happiness in havingtranquility of mind...And thebest comrade is one that hathno desire.Tibetan Doctrine
Simply give others a bit ofyourself; a thoughtful act,a helpful idea, a word ofappreciation, a lift over a rough
spot... You take somethingout of your mind, garnished in
kindness out of your heart, andput it into the other fellow’smind and heart.
Charles H, Burr
Give a mana fish and you feedhim for one day. Teach amanto fish and you feed him foralifetime.
Chinese Proverb
What is food to one man maybe fierce poison to others.
Lucretius

1-21: A BOXER IS ENTERING THE RING
Commentary: ‘A Boxer’ shows someone with the ability to standup, fight or take on a challenge. This person is seen ‘Enteringthe Ring’—a place where they need to stand up for something,tackle an issue or a person; to prove themselves strong in somemeasure. Fighting can take many forms, it can be done obviouslyor subversively. One can throw punches on every level of
consciousness: physically, spiritually, mentally and emotionally.
Oracle: It may be time to fight about some issue, but it shouldbe done within the bounds of the ‘Ring’-—heeding the rulesand regulations of decency. Make sure you possess the skills
and have earned the right to defend what you believe. Are
“rules” being broken? Is there someone keen to battle? Are theycausing problems? At times it may be appropriate or necessaryto physically “fight”, however signaling your readiness to fight
may cause the other to back down. If you really need to go into
the ‘Ring’ be fully prepared for any consequences. Be aware that
you may need to back off if you are losing ground. Standing up tosomething or someone can lead to a new level of self-confidence,but are you ready for the punches that might be thrown your
way? Use your instincts and watch every movement carefully.Knowing where the next punch is coming from can help. Whois the likely victor? Emotionally there are no real winners whenlovers or friends fight—both lose in one way or another. Also, it’s
often others who judge the real outcome or who’s the “winner” in
the end. Are you prepared to lose? It could be a situation of “may
the best man win”. ‘Boxing’ is a sport that owes its pleasures to
people’s glory, bravery, pain and sometimes humiliation; however,standing up for yourself and your rights can lead to others takingyou more seriously.
Keywords: Physical or psychological self-assertion anddetermination. Attack or defense? Fighting for emotional,psychological or physical space. Being seen as a person ofstrength. Throwing punches. Fighting on any level. Being
prepared to take a swing at someone or something. Stepping upto the plate. Throwing down the gauntlet. Going after the title.Big vs. small egos.
The Caution: Using force or power to dominate people or thosewho challenge. Acting in a combative manner. Not displayingsportsmanship. Wanting to knock people out. Looking for combat.Throwing punches at anything. Belting, smacking, invading.Being punch-drunk.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 21
Power is not revealed by strikinghard or often, but by strikingtrue.Honore de Balzac
In fighting and in everyday
life you should be determinedthough calm. Meet the situation
without tenseness yet notrecklessly, your spirit settled yetunbiased. An elevated spirit isweak and a low spirit is weak.Do not let the enemy see yourspirit.Miyamoto Musashi
He that wrestles with usstrengthens our nerves,and sharpens our skill. Ourantagonist is our helper.
Edmund Burke
Come up with a smiling face,
It’s nothing against you to fall
down flat, but to lie there—
that’s disgrace.
Edward Vance Cooke
He who fights and runs awaymay live to fight another day.
Proverb
Ifyou cannot bite, never show
your teeth.
Proverb
Sure there have been injuries
and deaths in boxing—but
none of them serious.
Alan Minter—boxer

1-22: THE GATE OPENS TO THE GARDEN
OF ALL FULFILLED DESIRES
Commentary: ‘The Gate Opens to the Garden of All FulfilledDesires’ is an image rich with future possibilities. This is such
a promising Symbol—it seems limited only by the imagination.How exciting to think that one could be so close to having all oftheir ‘Desires’ fulfilled. This new place or realm of activity sounds
incredibly enticing on many levels. As the ‘Gate Opens to the
Garden’, it leads to potential for growth and rewards.
Oracle: What and where is the place you strive for? It seems
that you have brought yourself to what you want, but there
may still be obstacles. There may be fear about just what ‘All
Fulfilled Desires’ may actually represent. Maybe you already
have everything you need—take a look around and ask yourself
this. Are you ready and willing to accept the rewards? Perhaps
you need to make the deliberate action of opening the ‘Gate’,
allowing entry to where you belong and where you want to be.
It can often be difficult accepting or admitting what we reallywant, especially to ourselves. You may be used to (or addicted to)
being in a difficult or unfulfilling situation or relationship. Canyou cope with the more rewarding possibilities that lie beyondany barriers? As this ‘Gate’ opens (in your mind, your emotions
or literally) you'll find you’ve come to a new threshold, possiblya whole new beginning in life. Often there needs to be a pause,
a reflection of how real or rewarding this new place is that you
are about to enter. Perhaps you need to knock first, showingyour clear intention of “wanting in”. Then you can take that step
towards what you want. Be prepared to tend to your ‘Garden ofFulfilled Desires’.
Keywords: Craving happiness. Gardens and their treasures.Trellises and flowing plants. Pathways to bliss. Gates and doors.Unlocking and opening gates and doors. Analyzing your heart’s
desires. The grass being greener on the other side. Rewards andtreasures waiting. The allure of somewhere else. Initiations.Passages to a better life. Acquiring property. Sexual fulfillment.
Opening up to life’s possibilities and rewards.
The Caution: Feeling or being shut out. Denying yourself theright to just rewards. Wild ‘goose-chases’. Being afraid of losing
everything. Having everything, but wanting more. Things not
being as real as you imagined. Feeling unhinged. Not having thematerials to make dreams come true. Issues of possession thatseparate. Your cup being half-empty or half-full.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 22
Paradise is always where lovedwells.
Jean Paul F. Richter
Pure love and suspicion cannot
dwell together: at the doorwhere the latter enters, the
former makes its exit.
Alexandre Dumas
When one door closes another
door opens; but we so oftenlook so long and so regretfullyupon the closed door, that wedo not see the ones which open
for us.Alexander Graham Bell
Ifyou haven't all the things
you want, be grateful for the
things you don't have that you wouldn't want.Anon
Be an opener of doors.Ralph Waldo Emerson
When the doors of perception
are cleansed, Man will seethings as they truly are, infinite.William Blake
Straight is the gate and narrow
is the way.The Bible
Opportunities multiply as they
are seized.Sun Tzu

1-23: A WOMAN IN PASTEL COLORS
CARRYING A HEAVY AND VALUABLE
BUT VEILED LOAD
Commentary: ‘A Woman in Pastel Colors Carrying a Heavyand Valuable But Veiled Load’ shows someone having to carry,
shoulder or put up with something that is weighing them down.
Although the ‘Load’ may not be comfortable, there is some kindof perceived reason or reward for hanging onto it. Often in tryingto conceal problems or issues from others, things become moreof a burden. The fact that she’s dressed in ‘Pastel Colors’ reveals
that the ‘Woman’ is a person who doesn’t necessarily want to put
on a dramatic show or draw attention to herself.
Oracle: The ‘Veiled Load’ shows someone going to a great dealof effort to conceal or cover up something very important.There could be worry about being “revealed” if anyone (letalone everyone) found out what’s being covered up. It mayseem they have succeeded in keeping secrets to themself, but
it is probably apparent to others that the burden is affecting
their behavior. Carrying the ‘Load’ may provide a convenientexcuse for not participating in life. However, although it may be
a ‘Heavy Load’ it is also said to be ‘Valuable’ in some measure.
Others may benefit from hearing what needs to be said. Further,
hanging on to upsets from the past can stop the enjoyment of lifein the present. It may be time to share previously private stories,
attitudes or beliefs with others. Enjoying all that one has in life
right now can lift the spirits and release any burdens. To varyingdegrees everyone is carrying some sort of ‘Heavy Load’ which
they try to conceal. Going through the day expressing kindnessand courtesy will leave behind a feeling of warmth and goodcheer for others. Positive attitudes and behavior helps to lightenthe ‘Load’ of everyone struggling with their burdens.
Keywords: Privacy. Quiet determination to get on with thejob. Mild manners. Carrying more than one’s share, gratefully
or grudgingly. Shouldering problems. Bad backs. Victim status- poor me! Secret pregnancies. Doing overtime. Heavy loads.
Smiling against the odds. Pastel colors. Codes of silence.
The Caution: Covering something up. Trying to conceal distrust.Keeping one’s thoughts and emotions locked-in creating ill
health and disease. Fading into the background. Not being
noticed or recognized. Feeling weighed down with shame, loss
or humiliation. Wearing dark clothes. Dressing in order to coverup. Being the family scapegoat. Heavy karma.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 23
Truth fears nothing butconcealment.Proverb
Conceal a flaw, and the worldwill imagine the worst.Marcus Valerius Martial
Our lives begin to end the daywe become silent about thingsthat matter.Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
The deeper the sorrow the less
tongue it hath.The Talmud
One stops being a child whenone realizes that telling one’s
trouble does not make it anybetter.Cesare Pavese
The mass of men lead livesof quiet desperation. What is
called resignation is confirmeddesperation ...a stereotyped
but unconscious despair is
concealed even under whatare called the games andamusements of mankind.Henry David Thoreau
And when a woman’s will is asstrong as the man’s who wants
to govern her, half her strength
must be concealment.
George Eliot

1-24: AN OPEN WINDOW AND A NET
CURTAIN BLOWING INTO THE SHAPE
OF A CORNUCOPIA
Commentary: ‘An Open Window and a Net Curtain Blowinginto the Shape of a Cornucopia’ is a Symbol of abundance and
prosperity. Abundantia was a Roman goddess of abundance,prosperity and good fortune. She has the ‘Cornucopia’, the “hornof plenty”, from which she distributes grain, money, fruits, flowersand food. In fact, all that one truly wants is represented as sittingin the “horn”. The wind blows in the ‘Open Window’ and remindsus of the beauty, joy and richness of life.
Oracle: We often long for what we want and this Symbol showsthat something is most probably coming your way. ‘An OpenWindow and a Net Curtain’ suggests that with the slightest
change of direction in the wind, our fortunes can change. Quitepossibly something is coming that has many promises. What
actually arrives on your doorstep may or may not be exactly whatwas wished for, but it is very likely to be somehow rewarding.How wonderful and yet surprising would it be if what you wantedactually did manifest? This could be a time of the realization andenjoyment of layers of spiritual nourishment. The ‘Blowing’ ofwind often implies spiritual agencies coming in. ‘Open’ yourmind to the possibilities that are being ‘Blown’ in from the realm
of spirit. The rewards can be plentiful, full of promise and self-sustaining. Be wary, however, of merely drifting and imaginingthat the big jackpot is going to just fall out of the sky. Buying theticket helps to win the lottery. Look for unusual or extraordinary
opportunities in the signatures of things around. Picture whatyou want and project it out into the world with the full intentionof it being fulfilled. What you want may just manifest itself in
front of you.
Keywords: Imagination. Keeping your options open. The promiseof fruition. The breath of life filled with inspiration. Realizing thatin everyday life, one has it all. Windows of opportunity. Gain,
abundance, riches. Spiritual energies pouring in. Concentratedenergy. Seeing desires taking shape. Curtains and windows.
The Caution: Relying on spiritual ideas to provide materialsustenance. Dreaming of things dropping into one’s lap. Hopingthat good luck will just ‘blow in’. Shutting windows, keepinglight and life out. Drawing curtains and withdrawing. Promises,
promises.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 24
Every separate thought takesshape and becomes visible in
color and form.Liu Hua-Yang
Wishes expand in directproportion to the resourcesavailable for their gratification.Robert Dato
The charitable give out the doorand God puts it back throughthe window.Proverb
When God closes a door Heopens a window.Anon
Strange things blow in throughmy window on the wings of thenight wind and | don’t worry
about my destiny.Carl Sandburg
lf opportunity doesn’t knock,build a door.
Milton Berle
There is no one, says another,whom fortune does not visit
once in his life; but when shedoes not find him ready toreceive her, she walks in at the
door, and flies out the window.Charles Montesquieu
Certain winds will make one’s
temper bad.
George Eliot

1-25: A DOUBLE PROMISE REVEALS ITS
INNER AND OUTER MEANINGS
Commentary: ‘A Double Promise Reveals its Inner and Outer
Meanings’ implies that what may at first have appeared to be
simple will probably end up being more complicated thanwas first imagined. Things may look great on the outside, butinternally there could be complications that should be considered.
There may need to be an honest appraisal of what was actuallysaid, thought or ‘Promised’, and what is actually possible in the
real world.
Oracle: It may seem as though there are so many possibilities
coming that could change your life on many levels, but ‘Promises’
are often more complicated than we initially think. Is this a
situation with integrity or is it laced with duplicity? Look carefully
at any ‘Promises’, or outcomes, that were assured or perhaps
assumed in this situation. Did you expect more than was actuallydelivered? One’s rational understanding and emotional desiresand responses can often conflict with each other. Consider
the effects of the ‘Promise’ on all levels of your being. What
comprehension, thoughts and emotions do you have surrounding
what was said or implied? This Symbol often indicates a choicethat arises between the heart and doing what you want to doand social obligation and knowing what’s right. There is muchto be realized and learnt from the situation that has led you to
the Oracle. There may be a need to draw another Symbol to getfurther information, to clarify and refine your direction.
Keywords: Rewards, but what do they bring with them? The
possible implications of or reasons for any promises. Something
that may look good on the outside, but prove to be difficult.
Looking for consensus. Possibilities and promises. The ins andouts of situations. Not turning up. The need to look at situationsfrom all sides. Internal vs. external realities. Catch-22 situations.Contracts.
The Caution: Fickleness, insincerity and two-facedness in humanrelationships. Expectations without clarification. Reversals ofdecisions or promises. Duplicity. Manipulating people in orderto achieve outcomes. Promising more than can be delivered.Endeavours or projects that are not worth the effort. Lies andmisleading statements. Having a hidden agenda. Momentarypledges that are soon forgotten. Contracts that bind.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 25
A wise man hears one word and
understands two.
Yiddish Proverb
Danger and delight grow on
one stalk.Scottish Proverb
The reverse side also has areverse side.Japanese Proverb
What a difference there isbetween what we say and whatwe think.
Jean Racine
We must not promise what we
ought not, lest we be called onto perform what we cannot.Abraham Lincoln
What's important is promising
something to the people,not actually keeping thosepromises. The people havealways lived on hope alone.Hermann Broch
All promise outruns
performance.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Words are words, explanationsare explanations, promises arepromises but only performance
is reality.
Harold S. Geneen
Never promise more than youcan perform.Publilius Syrus

1-26: A MAN POSSESSED OF MORE GIFTS
THAN HE CAN HOLD
Commentary: ‘A Man Possessed of More Gifts Than He CanHold’ is an image of a wonderful abundance of gifts, talents orpossessions. The words ‘More Than He Can Hold’ imply that it’srather difficult to keep or contain all of these great things at once.Perhaps some things need to be let go of. In this Symbol ‘Gifts’ canrefer to talents, possessions, people, possibilities, status, etc.
Oracle: This Symbol is about gifts of all kinds. As it talks about‘More Gifts Than He Can Hold’, it suggests that we need torealize that sometimes we can’t have and hold everything to
ourselves. There may be so much to possess. We may need to letgo of something in order to make space for new things in our
lives. There are, however, a lot of good things that can be ‘Held’.This Symbol implies being prepared to give up, or put asidesomething or someone, in order to pursue something else or to
have a desired outcome. Having many great ideas and ambitionsis wonderful, but it can keep us from really achieving anything;life can become unfocused or distracted by too many possibilities.
Feeling weighed down by and keeping tabs on your possessionscan be tiring. The best way to get things done is to do them oneat a time. Recognize that you are surrounded by abundance, butyou may be unable to experience it all at once. The aim is to
appreciate those things you can do or achieve now and not feel
bad about the things you can’t. If you feel you don’t have theability to cope, look into your “storehouse”. You will be surprised
at what talents you have probably never used. Just remember that
you can’t do and have everything at once.
Keywords: Potentials and the obsessions they can bring.Obsessions about “having things” or achieving goals. Counting
one’s blessings. Jack-of-all-trades. Having to drop the bundle ifone more thing is added. Being talented and blessed. Enormous
responsibilities. Wanting to contain all possibilities. Storage. Somany things to do—so little time.
The Caution: Not being able to focus on one issue at a time, oron ideas of real worth and therefore not really achieving anything.Inability to gain or contain everything that is desired. Ambitionthat knows no bounds. Greediness and insatiability. Being toldthat you can’t have what you want. Things piling up. Juggling anddropping the ball. Feeling as though you will lose everything.
Being overwhelmed with possibilities.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 26
A full cup must be carried
steadily.Old Saying
Everyone has inside himself apiece of good news! The goodnews is that you really don’tknow how great you can be,how much you can love, whatyou can accomplish, and whatyour potential is!
Anne Frank
A wise man will make moreopportunities than he finds.Francis Bacon
You must learn day by day,year by year, to broaden yourhorizon.The more things
you love, the more you areinterested in, the more youenjoy, the more you areindignant about, the moreyou have left when anythinghappens.
Ethel Barrymore
And the wild regrets and the
bloody sweats None knew sowell as I: For he who lives more
lives than one, more deaths
than one must die.
Oscar Wilde
He was one of those men who
possess almost every gift,
except the gift of the power to
use them.
Charles Kingsley

1-27: THROUGH IMAGINATION, A LOST
OPPORTUNITY IS REGAINED
Commentary: ‘Through Imagination, a Lost Opportunity isRegained’ implies an opportunity to set something right that wasthought to be gone or past any hope of recovery. The power ofthe mind and the imagination are the best tools to use to retrievethis issue. This symbol shows that by using creative ideas, the
very thing that was ‘Lost’ can be brought back into reality.
Oracle: You will have to summon up your talent and energy to
recapture what has been ‘Lost’ to you. This can be about jobs,relationships, creative ideas, possesions, anything. Use yourcreative energy to revitalize an idea or opportunity, even if it
seems to be hopeless. Even if you don’t get exactly what you want,
you will probably feel an incredible sense of relief as things areput back on track again. You need to believe that it is possible to
recapture what you thought was gone. Create an image in yourmind; imagine yourself with this ‘Lost Opportunity Regained’ thenyou will most likely succeed in your objectives, at least on somelevel. Visualizing what you want, allowing time and watching forit to manifest can bring astounding results. Just about anythingcan be recovered when this Symbol is around, but you must put
some energy into it, particularly using your ‘Imagination’. Timingmay be important in this situation and you might need the help
of others along the way. Finding ways to get the results you wantmay take time, or it could indeed happen overnight. Listen toyour imagination and intuition and let creative solutions to yourproblems rise up from within. Remember, though, that often ourrewards are different from what we first imagined.
Keywords: Creative imagination and visualization. Hopesrenewed when all seemed lost. Second chances. Last minutereprieves. Retracing your steps. Judging things to be positivewhen once they were thought to be negative. Being exoneratedor forgiven. Pardons giving release. Imagineering. Retrievingthings. Making up for lost ground or time. Changing your mindtherefore changing your outcome.
The Caution: Relying on self-pity. Denying the imagination torecover the situation. Not noticing solutions to problems. Lettingchances for recovery disappear through inaction or laziness.Going over and over lost opportunities. Finding it impossible tolet go. Staring at loss and not realizing what one has.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 27
Just think how happy youwould be ifyou lost everythingyou have right now, and then
got it back again.Frances Rodman
The ultimate function ofprophecy is not to tell thefuture, but to make it.Joel A. Barker
There is no use trying, said Alice;one can’t believe impossible
things.! dare say you haven't
had much practice, said theQueen..Why, sometimes
I’ve believed as many as six
impossible things before
breakfast.
Lewis Carroll
Opportunities are never lost;they are taken by others.Anon
In a minute there is a time fordecisions and revisions which a
minute will reverse.T.S. Eliot
Lest he should wander
irretrievably from the rightpath, he stands still.
William Hazlitt
A mind once stretched by a new
idea never regains its originaldimension.
Oliver Wendell Holmes

1-28: A LARGE DISAPPOINTED AUDIENCE
Commentary: ‘A Large Disappointed Audience’ implies thata performance of some kind or something that was done was
not what was wanted or expected. People have witnessed or
experienced something that was a ‘Disappointment’ or a letdown.It’s hard to know just what or how much the ‘Audience’ wasexpecting, but it is clear that they weren't happy with theperformance or outcome.
Oracle: You might feel as though you or someone else has failedand left others wanting. But how much is this because too muchwas expected in the first place? The ‘Audience’ only remembers
the last performance, so get up and try again, but this time bemore realistic. Be aware that in drawing this Symbol you may
be an observer (in the ‘Audience’), or you may even be your
own ‘Audience’. Does this picture a situation where you are
living through the responses you receive from others? Do youfeel that you’ve let yourself down? Sometimes it is necessary
to acknowledge when an idea or action needs to be droppedor stopped, to be able to cut your losses. Still, getting mentally
and emotional psyched up for something enjoyable and worthycan bring rewards, especially if you lower the expectations ofthe end result. Quick realizations of things as they really are
can bring a sense of hope for a better outcome next time. Weneed to remember that we often project our own thoughts
and expectations onto others; perhaps we can actually learnsomething more from failure than from success. Watch yourreactions to the situation facing you, and see what comes up. What
can you learn from observing your and others’ expectations? Howstrongly do you expect them to be fulfilled?
Keywords: Adjustments of expectations bringing realizationsabout what is really possible. Expecting the response of others.Walking out during a performance. Not listening to somethingthrough a lack of interest. Anticipating a different result fromwhat is delivered. Relying on feedback. Lines and queues ofpeople. Criticism. The need to inspire and enthuse.
The Caution: Feeling sad, sorry or letdown because of defeat andfrustration. A lot of people left feeling emotionally “wiped-out”.
Shattering of illusions. Fickleness. The attitude that one can’tdo anything. Everything being out of one’s control. Watching
what’s going on and not participating. Being at the mercy of the
whims and fancies of others. Judging and analyzing oneself orothers. Too many people crammed into one spot. Not getting aseat. Refusal of entry. Booing and hissing.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 28
It is always better to fail in
doing something than to excelin doing nothing.
Anon
There is luxury in self-reproach.
When we blame ourselves, we
feel no one else has a right to
blame us.
Oscar Wilde
Nothing is enough for the man
to whom enough is too little.Epicurus
We are ever striving after whatis forbidden, and coveting what
is denied us,Ovid
People ask for your criticism,but they only want praise.Somerset Maugham
Plato was a bore.
Friedrich Nietzsche
Stupid TV. Be more funny.Homer Simpson
A bad review is even less
important than whether it is
raining in Patagonia.
Iris Murdoch
The greatest mistake you can
make in life is to be continually
fearing you will make one Elbert Hubbard

1-29: THE MUSIC OF THE SPHERES
Commentary: ‘The Music of the Spheres’ is a beautiful image ofmusic and harmony. It implies harmonies in sounds of all kinds.
In this Symbol, the words ‘The Spheres’ refer to the planets in our
solar system. The scholar Pythagoras observed that the pitch of
notes or sounds depends on the rapidity of vibrations, and also
that the planets move at varying rates of motion. He concluded
that the sounds made by their movement vary according to these
different rates of motion. Kepler said of this “I grant you that nosounds are given forth, but I affirm...that the movements of theplanets are modulated according to harmonic proportions.” Since
all things in nature are harmoniously made, different soundscan harmonize. The combination of these sounds he called ‘TheHarmony of the Spheres’.
Oracle: This is a particularly intuitive Symbol. It appears that itdoesn’t matter if things are going well or not, if you are in tunewith your own inner voice, this can be a time of at-one-ment or
attunement with your path. Listening to the ‘Music’ around you
can open up messages from your own inner voice. The beautyof cycles that go round and round, as seen through the lens of
astronomy and astrology, can lead to an understanding of therhythms of nature and the seasons. Natural cycles revolve,meshing precisely like the gears in a clock. We each have a musicalvoice, our unique sound. We join with others in harmony andthe voices together create alchemy. Sing, ring a bell, play somemusic, use Tibetan bowls for their beautiful tones. Listen to thewords of songs to receive messages that are relevant to you. Beingin harmony with your surroundings can bring rewards both seen
and unseen.
eywords: Voices bringing messages. Attuning to the messagesinherent in astrology. Harmonies, chords, keys, octaves, tones.Things heard. Natural harmony of life. The beauty of the planets.The measurement of time. Circadian rhythms. Dancing to thewind. The humming of bees. Days of the week. The sound ofwater over rocks or crystals. The planets speaking through or to
you. Sending love. The atomic clock. Harmonics. Musical ratios.Numbers. Numerology. Sound healing.
The Caution: Inflating rational ideas. Delusion or enlightenment?Getting lost in abstractions. Rejecting what’s obvious on an
intuitive level in favor of more intellectual answers. Loving the
sound of your own voice. Not listening to obvious messages.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 29
Listen within yourself and lookinto the infinitude of Space andTime. There can be heard thesongs of the Constellations, thevoices of the Numbers, and theharmonies of the Spheres.
The Divine Pymander
All a musician can do is toget closer to the sources ofnature, and so feel that he is incommunion with the naturallaws.John Coltrane
There's music in the sighing
of a reed; there’s music in the
gushing of a rill; there’s musicin all things, if men had ears:Their earth is but an echo of thespheres.Lord Byron
The heavenly motions... are
nothing but a continuous songfor several voices, perceived notby the ear but by the intellect,
a figured music which setslandmarks in the immeasurableflow of time.
Johannes Kepler
Every action of our lives toucheson some chord that will vibratein eternity.Edwin Hubbel Chapin
Among whom the gods bless,high on the list are the music
people, who tune into celestialvibe-brations and give mortalsa taste of immortal sensations.Ruby Dee

1-30: A DUCK POND AND ITS YOUNG
BROOD
Commentary: ‘A Duck Pond and its Young Brood’ can indicateissues of belonging to a family, clan or tribe. The ‘Duck Pond’is a place where a family can live, forage for food, gather life’snecessities and be safely together. The parents, or at least themother ‘Duck’, needs to look after the ‘Brood’ to ensure thatthey are kept together, nourished and protected. Guidance anddirection need to be given so the youngsters grow into matureand responsible adults.
Oracle: You may feel restricted and bound in by reality, but you
probably also feel safe. Every day can hold some type of adventure,
but it is always within limits. Family, friends and the environmentaround us often set these limits. The mother figure needs to bestrong and vigilant to see that all is well with her ‘Young Brood’.
She needs to take great care in directing them in life so that theygrow and flourish both as a family and out there in the real worldas individuals. Is this ‘Duck Pond’ inviting to others, or do some‘Ducks’ scare off others who try to come near? Who belongs and
who doesn’t? Who’s invited to visit for a while, but then expectedto leave when their time is up? It’s quite natural to sometimesfeel threatened when people who don’t “belong” call or barge inunannounced, but an accommodating ‘Duck Pond’ should be ableto have differing types living in quiet safety together. Sometimeswe need to remind ourselves of the comforting things around usand the people who really belong with us. Are you looking after
those in your care?
Keywords: Nurturing family. Contentment. Realizing limitations.Reliability. The problems and joys in the responsibilities of havinga brood to look after. Finding friends or family that enrich
one’s life. Psychoanalysis. Family patterns and analysis. Familysupport. The family sphere. Feeling safe in one’s environs. Beingthe mother duck. Adoption and foster families. Communes andcommunities. Facing the music that you’ve composed.
The Caution: Denying your own needs for others in the ‘Brood’.Narrow-minded attitudes. Not inviting others in. Feeling stuck.Not wanting to leave the nest, grow up or take risks in life. Feelingleft out and alone. Smugness or exclusivity. All looking the sameand no one standing out as individuals. Being lost in the crowd.Distrusting those that are “alien”. Borders erected to keep out“foreigners”.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aries 30
There are only two lastingbequests we can hope to giveour children. One of these isroots, the other, wings.
Hodding Carter
Birds of a feather flock together.Proverb
Where can a person be betterthan in the bosom of theirfamily?
Marmontel Gretry
Always behave like a duck-keepcalm and unruffled on the
surface but paddle like the devilunderneath.Jacob Braude
A baby is an inestimableblessing and bother.Mark Twain
Each thought that is welcomedand recorded is a nest egg bythe side of which more will be
laid.Henry David Thoreau
God stirs up our comfortable
nests, and pushes us over the
edge of them, and we areforced to use our wings to saveourselves from fatal falling.Read your trials in this light,and see ifyour wings are beingdeveloped.Hannah Whitall Smith

2-1: A CLEAR MOUNTAIN STREAM
FLOWS STEADILY DOWNSTREAM
Commentary: ‘A Clear Mountain Stream Flows SteadilyDownstream’ in a path ultimately to the sea. The ‘Mountains’ arethe source of all the oceans and, like the ‘Stream’, life is a processof change from the cradle to the grave. A ‘Stream’ must follow itssure course even if it gets distracted from its goal, as can happenwhen the flow of water is diverted by something or someone. Asit ‘Flows Steadily Downstream’, nothing can really stop its ultimate
direction. If it is stopped or dammed, it accumulates immense
energy, and will practically burst to keep going. The water justgoes on, over, under, around, forever onward.
Oracle: There may be a need to choose a course and then notdeviate from it. This will help to nourish and inspire confidence inyourself and those around you. There is likely to be some type of
tradition and strength behind you. Realize that many came beforeyou and you are a part of their story. You can become fresh, vibrant
and revitalized from your own spiritual source. Be wary of standingstill in this situation as still water can become stagnant. Further,icy feelings and being alienated from others will invite troublefurther down the line. Set a course and go with the flow. As you getcloser to your objective you will probably find you have a growingsupply of impetus and power. Keep moving toward your goal while
remembering to cultivate warmth and acceptance with all thatyou meet along the way. However, this Symbol can also describea person that refuses to do anything other than what they havein mind. Having tunnel vision about one’s direction can alienateothers. Performing your tasks with focused vitality will be positiveand productive. Picture a ‘Stream’ flowing downhill, going aroundany obstacles and finding its true course.
Keywords: Remaining fluid. Flowing energy. Pure sources,
nourishment and refreshment. Sure sense of direction. “Untainted”blood lines. Purifying one’s thoughts, ideas and beliefs. Things set intrain from upstream. Water. Dams. Water as a resource. Purification.Cleaning and cleansing. Pipelines. The spiritual dimensions ofwater. Baptism. Elemental knowledge. Traffic. Flowing crowds ofpeople. Going against the tide.
The Caution: Aimlessness. Aloofness. Feelings of physical, spiritual,racial or intellectual purity that can lead to smugness, bigotry or a
false sense of superiority. Ice cold feelings and responses. Not takingnotice or being concerned about another’s feelings. Cold ambition.
Mud and sediment. Pollutants. Algae. Stagnants moments.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 1
Everything flows and nothingabides; everything givesway and nothing stays fixed.
Heraclitus
You will live your life securein that you are no longermanipulated by what other
people want you to do and be,but are directed by your owninner desires.H. Stanley Judd
You can never enter the sameriver twice.Indian Proverb
No river can return to its source,yet all rivers must have a
beginning.Native American Proverb
Ideas are refined and multipliedin the commerce of minds. !n
their splendor, images affectavery simple communion ofsouls.Gaston Bachelard
It isn’t pollution thatishurting
the environment; it’s theimpurities in our air and waterthat are doing it.Dan Quayle
The fountains of sacred riversflow upwards.Euripides
Time is but the stream | go afishing in.
Henry David Thoreau

2-2: AN ELECTRICAL STORM
ILLUMINATES THE HEAVENS AND
THE FORESTS
Commentary: ‘An Electrical Storm’ can really wake us up.
Sometimes it comes out of the blue, when we're not expecting it.As it approaches there is a strong buildup of energy and things canbecome stuck and static. There is a feeling of something pending;the tension and promise of a breaking point occurring at anyminute. As it ‘Illuminates the Heavens and the Forests’, it shedsflashes of light on the environment or the immediate situation.It often happens that the cleansing promise of rain is held back
momentarily while the 'Electrical' power of the situation seems
to take over everything.
Oracle: This situation will most likely change from what it firstappeared to be. You may actually have little influence over what
is being unleashed. In the meantime, there’s a need to keep a cool
head while observing everything around. Eventually the energywill dissipate and you will regain control: physically, mentally oremotionally. Lightning is a powerful ‘Electrical’ energy, and brilliant
flashes of intuition can come when it is unleashed. This Symbol saysthat the ‘Electrical Storm Illuminates the Heavens and the Forests’;with a sense of added awareness, it brings insight and ‘Illumination’
to a high point of focus. Things that have not been obvious beforeare likely to become much clearer to you, sometimes crystal clear.
Paths out of confusion can suddenly be revealed. Pay attention, asthis can be in short grabs. Things will seem better if you feel safein your environment and with the people around you. Keep your
eyes wide open. Don’t worry about losing control, as the ‘Electrical
Storm’ will pass relatively quickly, possibly leaving you in a betterplace and a fresh state of mind.
Keywords: Reverence for the forces of nature. Loud cracks, flashes,and bangs that clear the air. Flashes of insight. Tension and its
release. Electrical conductors. The sense that all hell is going tobreak loose. Short circuits of mind or emotions. Electricity failures.
Crackling emotions. Flashes in quick succession. Bursts of energy.Light changing. Psychic clearing. Hot flushes. Surges.
The Caution: Being frozen in fear just when one needs to spurto action. Losing control. Being distracted by surroundings. Not
being completely aware of all the potential dangers. Worry thatovertakes and engulfs. Chaos in the brain. Nervous reactions.Things changing quickly. Brilliance that is quickly or easily lost.Power blackouts.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 2
Lightning is the shorthand of astorm, and tells of chaos.Eric Mackay
The difficulties we experience
always illuminate the lessonswe need most.Anon
The best lightning rod for your
protection is your own spine.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
I'd rather be a lightning rod
than a seismograph.Ken Kesey
Knowledge does not come to usin details, but in flashes of lightfrom heaven.Henry David Thoreau
Nothing in life is more excitingand rewarding than the suddenflash of insight that leaves youa changed person—not onlychanged, but for the better.
Arthur Gordon
His intelligence seized onasubject, his genius embraced it,
his eloquence illuminated it.Paterculus
And God said: Let there be light:and there was light.
The Bible
Where God and Nature met inlight.Lord Alfred Tennyson

2-3: NATURAL STEPS UP TO A LAWN
BLOOMING WITH CLOVER
Commentary: ‘Natural Steps Up to a Lawn Blooming With
Clover’ implies ‘Steps’ that are inviting, promising and easy to
climb. It feels as though they’re leading to the promise of beauty,greenery and repose. They are ‘Blooming With Clover’, whichshows there is a reward at hand when those ‘Steps’ are taken.
Bees love ‘Clover’ and ‘Lawns Blooming With It’ ensures that thebees will make honey and therefore life will be sweet. Clover haslong been believed to mean good luck, prosperous circumstancesand luxurious surroundings. Also, the expression “he’s in clover”
or “living in clover” comes from the belief that if you had plenty
of ‘Clover’ for your cows to eat, they would produce good milk,
thereby providing nourishment for everyone.
Oracle: This Symbol shows that a time of fulfillment andcompletion is close, but there is still some small effort to be
made to attain what you want or need. You must take the ‘Steps’,
even though they may be simple, to achieve what you want orto arrive where you want to be. There is definitely a need to putsome effort into getting what you want but it’s probably not goingto be too difficult or hard going. Be on the alert for laziness and a“come what may” attitude. Regardless of what others are doing,keep going the way you are, following your natural intuition andyou will find, or achieve, what you have in sight. Rewards can be
just a few ‘Steps’ away. It may be worth remembering that this
landing in the ‘Clover’ may only be temporary, as there will benew things to do and further things to strive for. You may nothave found your ‘Pot of Gold at the End of the Rainbow’ just yet,
but you are most likely on the right path.
Keywords: Hopefulness. Inspirational possibilities. Graduallyenlarging one’s vision. Harmony. Seasonal changes. Runningaround on grass. Bare feet. The beauty of greenery and flowers.Stability on the path. Steps that invite one on to bigger and betterthings. Abundance, nourishment. Making small efforts that can
lead to large returns. Places to spread out and relax. Having plenty
of room to move. Gardens and parks.
The Caution: Looking for the easy way out. Not making theeffort to find what is just a few steps away. Being lazy when oneshould be going for the objective. Temporary success. Expecting
everything to be laid out before you. Weeds. Unkempt lawns.Neglected land.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 3
Like the bee that now is blown
honey-heavy on my hand, fromhis toppling tansy-throne, in thegreen tempestuous land—l’min clover now, nor know who
made honey long ago.
Edmund Blunden
Sweet scents of summer airbreathing over fields of beansor clover; the perfume of wetleaves or moss; the life ofwaving trees, and shadows
always changing.
Charles Dickens
The reason so many peoplenever get anywhere in life isbecause when opportunityknocks, they are out in the
backyard looking for four-leafclovers.Walter Chrysler
Talk to him of Jacob’s Ladder
and he would ask the numberof the steps.Douglas William Jerrold
I like the man who faces whathe must, With steps triumphantand a heart of cheer; Who fightsthe daily battle without fear.Sarah Knowles Bolton
What a miserable thing life is:you're living in clover, only theclover isn't good enough.Bertolt Brecht

2-4: THE POT OF GOLD AT THE END OF
THE RAINBOW
Commentary: ‘The Pot of Gold at the End of the Rainbow’ isa wonderful image. ‘Rainbows’ are said to be a bridge to theDivine. They inspire awe as we gaze at their beauty and thesheer wonder of nature. They can represent boundless promise,and there is said to be a reward, a ‘Pot of Gold’, to be found atits end. In folklore, elves, leprechauns and fairies are associatedwith ‘The Pot of Gold’.
Oracle: The quest to find our ‘Pot of Gold’ is very tempting but it
can be forever elusive because it appears to move as We move or as
we change our perspective. However, we all have our dreams and
with a little concentrated effort we can reach our own version of
the ‘Pot of Gold’. It can imply riches and rewards on many levels,sometimes beyond our wildest dreams. There may be a need toreflect on just what exactly these “riches” are. The promise of the
‘Pot of Gold’ entices us, but this can also be the cause of problems
if we forget other more important things in life. Some people wantmaterial or spiritual riches without putting in any hard work. Thisway of thinking may lead one astray. Although some people canearn their way through life on a wing and a prayer, most haveto put in a true effort to succeed. Often it is not the finding ofthe elusive ‘Pot of Gold’ at the ‘Rainbow’s End’ that is the realreward, but the rewards found during the search and the wonderthe ‘Rainbow’ creates as it links heaven and earth. Perhaps thereis a constant search for rewards without recognizing the richesthat are already at hand. In this situation, many rewards can
come from creative and spiritual efforts - just be a little wary ofexpecting too much. Picture a ‘Rainbow’ in your mind, see ‘ThePot of Gold’; and hold it in your memory bank - this will sustain
you and may indeed lead you to your reward.
Keywords: The promise of riches, in whatever forms thesemay take. Creative imagination. Goals and ambitions. Alchemy.Splashes of color. Rewards contained. The search for the treasure.
Seeking communion with nature and life’s bounty. Wealth derivedfrom changing perspective. Talent and beauty. Fantasies. Illusionsvs. reality. Fairylands.
The Caution: Seeking easy, tempting solutions. Thinking thatrewards are always just “over the horizon”. Thinking that one isnever going to get near “it”. Elusive success. Forgetting the moreimmediate things in life. Seeking perfection. Castles in the air.Pipe dreams. Fool's paradise.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 4
If! traveled to the end of therainbow, As Dame Fortune didintend, Murphy would be there totell me, The pot’s at the other end.
Bert Whitney
All that is gold does not glitter;not all those that wander are
lost.
J.R.R. Tolkien
Pennies do not come fromheaven—they have to beearned here on earth.Margaret Thatcher
The foolish man seekshappiness in the distance, thewise grows it under his feet.J. Robert Oppenheimer
He felt like a man who, chasing
rainbows, has had one of themsuddenly turn and bite him in
the leg.P.G. Wodehouse
I have been in Sorrow’s kitchenand licked out all the pots.Then | have stood on the peaky
mountain wrapped in rainbows,
with a harp and sword in my
hands.Zora Neale Hurston
A golden key will open everylock.Yiddish Proverb
Every absurdity has a championto defend it.
Oliver Goldsmith

2-5: A YOUTHFUL WIDOW, FRESH AND
SOUL-CLEANSED FROM GRIEF,
KNEELS AT AN OPEN GRAVE TO
RECEIVE THE SECRET OF ETERNAL LIFE
Commentary: ‘A Youthful Widow, Fresh and Soul-Cleansed FromGrief, Kneels at an Open Grave to Receive the Secret of EternalLife’. She’s learning some hard-won and valuable lessons through
her loss. She is mourning at a grave and receiving meaningfulinsights into the purpose of life. However, the ‘Grave’ is still
‘Open’, which shows that in some respect she hasn’t had the
necessary time or hasn’t been able to complete the mourning
process and move on with her life. The ‘Grave’ will only be filled
in when she can sincerely say good-bye to the person or situation
that has been lost. By continuing to stand at the ‘Open Grave’ the
“burial ritual” cannot be fully accomplished or completed.
Oracle: Looking at things that are gone or lost can stop people
from accepting newer, more vital relationships and opportunities.Don’t let loss make you give up and throw everything away.Gathering up one’s energy and starting on a new path is often thekey. Realizing that life must go on, we learn that we can recoverour feet and move forward. However, it is very important to allowtime to grieve. Letting go of the past, and things that are worn
out, and being accepting will bring release. The memory of theperson, thing or situation that has passed from your life can bringtears of ‘Grief’, but also tears of joy. Remember the gifts that have
been given or left to you, and don’t focus on the losses that youcan’t replace. How many times and for how long do you have tosay good-bye to someone or something? Don’t stand still, staringat loss, immobilized by fear. Imagine yourself walking away toa new chapter of your life. Take note of when it is time to fill inthe ‘Grave’ and complete the circle. Fill in “The Grave’, bless the
past and move on.
Keywords: Gradual realization of the illusion of matter. Lettinggo of that which no longer works. Purging and burning the past.
Giving up past grievances. The passage of grief. Receiving the gifts
that loss and separation can bring through time. Grief, divorce,loss. Redundancies. Near-death experiences. Inheritances.
The Caution: Wasting time staring at lost opportunities. Grudgesand bad feelings that last much longer than needed. Staring at
issues of loss and death. War and its horrors. The feeling that onehas no future. People or events that just won't leave one’s memory.Hanging on for fear of the future. Empty legacies.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 5
The bitterest tears shed over
graves are for words left
unsaid and deeds left undone.
Christopher Crowfield
One problem with gazing toofrequently into the past is that
we may turn around to findthe future has run out on us.
Michael Cibenko
lfyoure still hanging onto adead dream of yesterday, layingflowers on its grave by the
hour, you cannot be plantingthe seeds for a dream to growtoday.Joyce Chapman
Make the most of your regrets;
never smother your sorrow, buttend and cherish it till it comesto have a separate and integralinterest.To regret deeply is tolive afresh.Henry David Thoreau
Every time I think that I'm
getting old, and going to the
grave, something else happens.Lillian Carter
The pain passes, but the beautyremains.Pierre Auguste Renoir
The grave is but the threshold of |eternity.
Robert Southey

2-6: A BRIDGE BEING BUILT ACROSS A
HIGH NARROW GORGE
Commentary: ‘A Bridge Being Built Across a High NarrowGorge’ is about finding a creative and concrete solution tobe able to cross to the other side of a separation or dilemma.There may be a separation or gulf, shown here by the ‘Gorge’,between places, people or objectives. ‘Bridges’ need to be built
to overcome separate areas of activity and to link people andplaces together.
Oracle: There may seem to be no way of overcoming the distancebetween you and another, or the outcome or thing that’s desired.
Realizing the gulfs you face and doing something about anybreaks in communications between you can lead to whole newpossibilities. Building ‘A Bridge’ takes time, energy and mostoften, the help of others. It may be best to start working towards‘Building a Bridge’ now. Once it is completed, the dangers thatthe ‘Bridge’ spans are no longer of such great concern - that is,unless the ‘Bridge’ is not secure. Failure to adequately span the
gap may actually feel life threatening. Looking back or downmay bring on a sense of danger or instability. However, with this
Symbol, you can feel secure that the ‘Bridge’ will be there for
you when you need it. Imagine yourself coming to the brink andgoing straight ahead, but don’t look down. With creative thought
physical limitations can be overcome most of the time. Be carefulnot to get preoccupied or wound up worrying whether thingsare going to fail. Remember the saying, “Don’t cross that bridgeuntil you come to it.” This basically indicates that you shouldn'tconcern yourself with difficulties until they arise. Don’t placetoo much importance on the outcomes until you get to the other
side. It may help to get some plans drawn up, in reality or in yourimagination.
Keywords: Overcoming distance and separation. Endeavoringto build continuity. Solving problems with creative solutions.Bridging emotional chasms. Spanning gaps. Breaking downbarriers. Structures spanning distances between places orpeople. Conquering time and space barriers. Physical limitationsovercome. Taking one step at a time. Avoiding looking down.
The Caution: Taking the long way round to avoid asking forhelp. Using shortcuts to cut across the real issue. Only seeingthe risks, not the solutions to problems. The fear of establishingconnections. The pervading sense that it could all fall throughat any moment. Extreme sports.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 6
Faith is building on what you
know is here, so you can reachwhat you know is there.Cullen Hightower
Don't be afraid to take a big
step when one is indicated. You
can’t cross a chasm in two smallsteps.David Lloyd George
Being on the tightrope is living;
everything else is waiting.Karl Wallenda
We are told never to cross a
bridge till we come to it, but thisworld is owned by men who
have ‘crossed bridges”in theirimagination far ahead of the
crowd.
Speakers Library
People are lonely because they
build walls instead of bridges.J.F. Newton
The hardest thing in life to learnis which bridge to cross andwhich to burn.David Russell
Voyager, there are no bridges;
one builds them as one walks.Gloria Evangelina Anzaldua
Creativity is the power toconnect the seeminglyunconnected.William Plomer

2-7: THE WOMAN OF SAMARIA COMES
TO DRAW WATER FROM JACOB'S
WELL
Commentary: ‘The Woman of Samaria Comes to Draw Waterfrom Jacob’s Well’ is a Symbol that comes from the Biblical story
of Jesus meeting ‘The Woman of Samaria’ at ‘Jacob’s well’. She,along with others, was taken by surprise that Jesus would actually
speak to her, for she was a Samaritan and he was a Jew. The Jews
and the Samaritans normally did not get along. She was also onthe fringe of her own society as she was not married. As he spoketo ‘The Woman’, he revealed to her that he was the Messiah. This
was a great blessing to her. The Buddhist tradition tells a very
similar story of being accepted regardless of caste.
Oracle: This Symbol calls for universal love to be available toeveryone. It speaks of the need to dispel prejudice, either given
or received. With this Symbol, there can be the urge to seek and
to find acceptance, love and redemption. If one’s elders have
passed down prejudices, be aware that they lived in a different
time; living in the present may require the updating of ideas and
opinions. If your heart is clogged up with old emotions or spentfeelings, it is time to clear these. In doing so, address situationsthat hold people apart. Take action to restore any lost self-respect.
Own up, express your concerns to that stranger within yourself,your shadow, and then let them go. It may be that someone else
needs your help. If so, draw on your inner resources and take time
out to assist them. No matter your situation, you will be blessed
by “higher powers” if you give others respect and reverence.
It is about discovering what you share with others, not whatseparates you. Similarities lie deep within us all. Imagine yourself
drawing ‘Water’ up from that special ‘Well’, then find yourselfrefreshed and ready for a more rewarding, compassionate and
confident life.
Keywords: Dipping into family ancestry. Past lives. New ideasbeing revealed about one’s social and spiritual integrity. Goingbelow the surface. Assimilation of divergent ideals. Feelingblessed. Life-altering experiences. The blessing of water. Freedomand respect for all. Stepping over social boundaries.
The Caution: Allowing social prejudice to rule decisions aboutoneself and others. Unacceptable behavior based on socialconditioning. Feeling that one is from the “wrong tribe” andcan't assimilate or contribute. Issues of being acceptable, worthy
or a “local”. Water disputes.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 7
“Is this one tribe or a stranger?”is the calculation of the narrow-minded; but to those of a nobledisposition the world itself isbut one family.Hitopadesa Proverb
We never know the worth ofwater till the well is dry.
English Proverb
Your vision will become clearonly when you can look intoyour own heart...Who looksoutside, dreams; who looks
inside awakes.Carl Gustav Jung
It was ...enough to suffer as awoman, an individual, on one’sown account, without having tosuffer for the race as well. It wasbrutality, and undeserved.Nella Larsen
We need to feel the cheer and
inspiration of meeting eachother; we need to gain thecourage and fresh life thatcomes from the minglingof congenial souls, of thoseworking for the same ends.Josephine St. Pierre Ruffin
What lam is a humanist before
anything... before I'm a Jew,
before I’m black, before I'mawoman. And my beliefs are forthe human race—they don’texclude anyone.
Whoopi Goldberg

2-8: A SLEIGH WITHOUT SNOW
Commentary: ‘A Sleigh Without Snow’ is a Symbol of somethingthat has difficulty finding the means to get to its destination. A‘Sleigh’ can’t go anywhere without ‘Snow’, as it is the mediumwhich supports the ‘Sleigh’ in its movement, and without it the‘Sleigh’ isn’t going anywhere. The 'Sleigh' may be useful at othertimes, but now it is either ahead of its time or useless, redundant,or waiting for the right moment.
Oracle: It may seem that there isn’t much that can be done with
the fuel that is readily available. Regardless of the amount of
desire or the need for progress or forward push, this ‘Sleigh’without ‘Snow’ will not be going anywhere in a big hurry. This cansymbolize a situation where someone is ahead of their time, but itcan also show that someone has missed their time to go forwardand they have to wait for future opportunities to show themselves.They may also have to wait for a healing, or for financial situationsto resolve. Regardless of which is true, there is a sense here ofhaving to wait until conditions and situations change to be ableto achieve what it is that you want or to get where you want to
go. Are you using up a lot of energy trying to make things work
in very difficult conditions? You may have part of the problemsolved (you at least have a vehicle for moving forward), but nowyou must have the patience to wait for the rest of the elements tofall into place. This Symbol is often about timing. You can oftenfuel your situation by really tapping into your imagination. The
question is, what adjustments or improvisations can be made?
You need to wait until the time is right, then you will have exactly
what you need - the “fuel” and the right conditions which allowyou to complete your mission.
Keywords: Independence from outer circumstances. Using thecreative mind to work through momentary shortages or problems.Anticipating future conditions. Having the “vehicle”, but not thetime, energy or the “fuel”. Improvising things so that they workbetter or ahead of their time. Gas, oil, fuel. Snow. The value oftiming. Lack of resources. "Tyres" that are missing or don't work.Being ahead or behind one's time.
The Caution: Forcing your ideas or feelings even though thetime is not right. Lack of support from the environment. Missingconnections. Running out of energy. Having the right thing inthe wrong place. Ideas without the capital to make them reality.A lack of impetus or propulsion. Feeling stuck, unmoving. Trafficjams. Empty tanks.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 8
I don't have any solution but I
certainly admire the problem.
Ashleigh Brilliant
Not only is there no God, but try
finding a plumber on Sunday.Woody Allen
The poverty of our imaginationis no measure of, say, the world’s
resources. Our posterity will nodoubt get fuel in ways that we
are unable to devise for them.George Eliot
A creative economy is the fuel
of magnificence.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Confront the dark parts ofyourself, and work to banishthem with illumination and
forgiveness. Your willingness towrestle with your demons willcause your angels to sing. Usethe pain as fuel, as a reminder
of your strength.
August Wilson
No steam or gas ever drivesanything until it is confined. NoNiagara is ever turned into lightand power until it is tunneled.
No life ever grows until it isfocused, dedicated, disciplined.Harry Emerson Fosdick
Nothing is so difficult that
diligence cannot master it.Malagasy Proverb

2-9: A CHRISTMAS TREE IS DECORATED
AND SHINES IN THE DARKNESS
Commentary: ‘A Christmas Tree is Decorated’ is a Symbol that
brings feelings of family, celebration and happiness. When the ‘Tree
is Decorated’ it represents a sign of unity and that many of ourfamily and celebrational needs are, or will be, met. The star placedon top of the “Tree’ represents the star that led the wise men, theMagi astrologers, to the stable in Bethlehem where Jesus was born.As long as the spirit of Christmas is celebrated with thankfulnessand joy, people will be happy and share both their love and theirtime. Often at Christmas it is cold outside. There is the sensationof snow on the ground and everything being rather bleak outsidewhilst inside there is love, shelter, food and warmth. There is alsothe beauty of the Christmas lights - the ‘Tree is Decorated and Shines
in the Darkness’. The presents glint and a feeling of anticipationhangs in the air of what fun and rewards are yet to come. Giving andreceiving whilst enjoying family and friends are the main elements
behind the spirit of Christmas. The presents don’t have to be big and
expensive, it’s the warmth and spirit of sharing that matters.
Oracle: This is an opportunity for enjoying or accepting family, for
celebrations and appreciating cultural ties, and for taking time outto remember and honor these things. Activities with the group willbring joy to all those who are close enough to partake. Even if youdon’t know the people you are celebrating with, joy will be spreadand celebrated—unless there are feelings of alienation, loneliness
or loss. Do some elements of your situation shine more brightly inthe cloak of the night than the clear light of day? If there are giftsyou want to give, are you worried about how they will be received?
Even if you arrive empty handed, the true gift is in the giving of
yourself, not in the actual gift itself. Hopefully everybody realizesthis. One of our presents to others is to be able to receive our giftsand each other joyfully without worry or judgment.
Keywords: Enjoying the fruits of one’s culture. Warmth within
whilst it may be cold outside. The rebirth of the spirit. Faith and
the hope of happiness and goodwill of people to one another.
Celebrations bringing people together that once were parted.Decorations. Things done with loving intent. The promise of goodthings. Colored lights. Gifts. Stars and angels.
The Caution: The pretense of happiness or success in a decorative show. Not allowing for others from different religions or socialclasses. Being excluded and left in the cold. Family cohesionon display belying  the real situation. Commercialism. Family disappointments.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 9
Remember, if Christmas isn’t
found in your heart, you won't
find it under the tree.Charlotte Carpenter
I bought my brother some
gift-wrap for Christmas. tookit to the gift wrap department
and told them to wrap it,
but in a different print so he
would know when to stopunwrapping.Steven Wright
Rings and jewels are not gifts,but apologies for gifts, for theonly [true] gift is a portion ofthyself.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
And every gift, though it be
small, is in reality great if given
with affection.Pindar
A good conscience is acontinual Christmas.
Benjamin Franklin
Adults who [hang] gifts of aready-made education on
the Christmas tree of a childwaiting outside the door to life
do not realize how unreceptive
they are making the children to
everything that constitutes the
true surprise of life.
Karl Kraus

2-10: A RED CROSS NURSE WITH WARM
SYMPATHY
Commentary: ‘A Red Cross Nurse’ is someone who can be calledupon to help in an emergency. She is receptive to the emotionaland physical needs of others. Reliable and caring, she brings
healing and relief as she patches up what needs to be fixed.Making things better is her quest and her duty. Mostly, she carriesout her duties without fuss or fanfare. That she does this ‘WithWarm Sympathy’ implies that the ‘Red Cross Nurse’ is a kindlyperson, someone who can be relied upon for doing the right thingwith care, attention to detail and the intention of healing. Sheneeds to be attentive every time she is called upon, regardless of
whether she is tired or has chores of her own to attend to.
Oracle: It seems that there is a lot you have to do, but first you
will probably have to provide help to others. There can bea great deal of inner healing achieved when helping others.Through empathy and sympathy we often learn about aspectsof ourselves. How willing and able are you to give your time tohelp another, either physically or emotionally? How can you be
expected to cope if you have too much to do? Perhaps you are in
need of some help yourself. Things may not be easy or enjoyable
and you may have to cross over into the “dark side” in order tobring light and love to the situation. Things may call for a morepersonal touch and approaching matters sympathetically ratherthan just clinically may be appropriate. Look at what’s occurring,
and take into consideration people’s shortcomings. Sometimes
others need care because they can’t cope with even the smallestthings. There may not be many apparent rewards but the sense ofcare and healing that is invoked is often its own reward. Through
showing ‘Warm Sympathy’ to those involved, a solution and ahealing can be attained.
Keywords: Unconditional and compassionate understandingand caring. Breaking down the borders between self and others.Always having to find reserves of energy. Looking after people’s
physical, emotional, spiritual welfare. Giving and also receiving.Volunteer work. First aid kits. Bedside manners. Having a missionto fulfill. Having a shoulder to cry on.
The Caution: ‘Fussing’ around and doing more than one needsto. Always butting in, even when it’s not necessary or wanted.Being a doormat and doing more than your share. Not caring
how others are coping, even when it’s really necessary. Beingofficious and bossy. Feeling used.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Ifyou treat a sick child like an
adult and a sick adult like achild, everything usually worksout pretty well.Black Hawk
I may be compelled to facedanger, but never fear it, andwhile our soldiers can stand
and fight, can stand and feedand nurse them.
Clara Barton
Complain to one who can help you.Yugoslav Proverb
When you are in trouble,people who call to sympathize
are really looking for the particulars.Ed Howe
The comforter’s head neveraches.
Proverb
A broken bone can heal, butthe wound a word opens canfester forever.Jessamyn West
God appoints our gracesto be nurses to other men’sweaknesses.Henry Ward Beecher
Ifyou want others to be happy,practice compassion. Ifyou
want to be happy practicecompassion.H.H. The Dalai Lama

2-11: A WOMAN SPRINKLING LONG ROWS
OF FLOWERS
Commentary: ‘A Woman Sprinkling Long Rows of Flowers’ is a
lovely picture of the rewards that come from tending a garden andbeing responsive to its needs. This takes perseverance and canbe hard work as there are weeds or other unwanted elements tokeep an eye out for. However, tending to the ‘Flowers’ gives the
‘Woman’ time to pause for a moment and breathe in the beauty
of nature and her place in it. She can relax into nature and enjoythe moment as a lot of the hard work is finished; her gatden hasnow come into bloom.
Oracle: This Symbol often speaks of the need to take time tonurture the physical self. Along with smaller, less able things that
need care, your body needs water, sustenance and nourishment,too. Drinking plenty of water and nourishing yourself with goodfood is part of this. Hence there may be the need to pay attention
to what your body is telling you. Sometimes the mind needs totake a rest, and the body needs to be allowed to come to bloomand bask a little in the sunlight. Now is the time to enjoy the fruitsof one’s work. Also, looking after younger and smaller things sothey may grow to maturity and fullness brings its own type ofreward. This might require patience and a determination to work
at something. Keeping an eye on things that you are responsible
for will ensure that they don’t dry out and fade away ahead of,or before, their time. Weeding out undesirable factors is often anecessary part of this process. Taking time out to actually water
plants or the garden may bring some wonderful realizations to
your life. As fairies and nature spirits are said to live in gardens,meditating whilst ‘Sprinkling’ the garden, or pot plants, maybring nourishing insights to the question that brought you tothe Oracle.
Keywords: Having patience and care. Nurturing and fertilizing
creativity. External evidence of internal beauty. Looking after
small details to reap treasures later. The Tree of Life. Stoppingto smell the roses. Paying attention to detail. Flower essences.Sprinkling love and sustenance. Watering and fertilizing. Tendingthe soil. Care and love.
The Caution: Giving superficial attention just to keep upappearances. Neglect of things once they’re established. Giving
up on projects half way through. Dehydration and neglect.Droughts or energy, love or feeling. Neglecting things in favorof other priorities. Water restictions.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 11
Cultivate more joy by arranging
your life so that more joy will be
likely.George Witkin
Flowers always make people
better, happier and morehelpful; they are sunshine, food
and medicine to the soul.
Luther Burbank
Would that the little flowers
were born to live conscious ofhalf the pleasure which theygive.Longfellow
Cultivate peace first in the
garden of your heart by
removing the weeds of lust,
hatred, greed, selfishness, andjealousy. Then only those whocome in contact with you willbe benefited by your vibrations
of peace and harmony.
Sivananda
By cultivating the beautiful wescatter the seeds of heavenly
flowers, as by doing good we
cultivate those that belong to
humanity.Vernon Howard
For the benefit of the flowers,we water the thorns, too.Egyptian Proverb
Some of the sweetest berriesgrow among the sharpestthorns.
Gaelic Proverb

2-12: A YOUNG COUPLE WALK DOWN
MAIN-STREET, WINDOW-SHOPPING
Commentary: ‘A Young Couple’ are walking down the ‘MainStreet, Window-Shopping’. They may be looking with hopes forthe future, or perhaps they are just seeking to while away thetime together. Regardless, they are an image of youth and the
expectations of bigger and better things. If this “Young Couple’have goals in common and a common path to share, all will be
well and things will unfold naturally. It may be that in light of
their social position or their financial possibilities, they can only
‘Window-Shop’ for the moment. Is this ‘Couple’ really “‘WindowShopping’ together, or is only one of them dreaming of what they
could have and how things could be better? Are they “together”or do they really want different things out of life?
Oracle: Things are probably out of reach for you at the moment,
including the stability of your domestic or emotional needs,
but that shouldn’t stop you looking or planning for the future.
However, care may need to be taken, as jealousy and greed can
rise up easily when there seems to be so much, so close and yet so
far away. Enjoy the display and the quiet moments of togethernesswithout rush, and then get back to your real life. Realize that eventhough things feel far off in some way, things of inner worth
are available to you, right now. Is there an issue concerningcommitment to relationship, or is this a situation of just having alook to see what might be possible for the future? Now is possibly
not the right time to make any firm decisions, but rather to lookat all your possibilities and options. ‘Window-Shop’ a little and
share your dreams. See how they can turn into reality.
Keywords: The longing for “things”. The allure of ownership.Consumerism. Trying to raise money. Worrying about the “cost”of things. Weddings and engagements. Credit cards. Financesthat are shared. Shared dreams. The future and its possibilities.Young people. Planning. Shopping. The honeymoon period. So
much so close and yet so far.
The Caution: Denying happiness because of material deficiency.“Keeping up with the Jones”. Not focusing on your partner/friend. Unsure of where one stands. Being unwilling to committo anything just yet. Avoiding the heart of one’s relationship.Focusing on the financial side. Issues of ‘who pays for what’.Arguments over money or possessions. Merely ‘WindowShopping’ not committing. Overspending. Being in debt.Monetary distractions. Missed opportunities.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 12
Joy is notin things, it is in us.Richard Wagner
You can’t have everything.Where would you put it?
Stephen Wright
Large desire is endless poverty.
Indian Proverb
We don’t need to increase
our goods nearly as much as
scaling down our wants. Notwanting some thing is as good
as possessing it.Donald Horban
Advertising may be describedas the science of arrestinghuman intelligence longenough to get money from it.Stephen Leacock
What really matters is what youdo with what you have.
Shirly Lord
When we are not rich enough tobe able to purchase happiness,we must not approach too nearand gaze on it in shop windows.
Tristan Bernard
Marrying a man is like buyingsomething you've beenadmiring for along timeinashop window. You may love
it when you get it home, butit doesn’t always go with
everything else in the house.Jean Kerr

2-13: A PORTER CARRYING A MOUNTAIN
OF HEAVY BAGGAGE
Commentary: A ‘Porter’, otherwise known as a baggage handleror bellboy, has a lot of work to do. He is performing a service
for others and here he is seen having ‘a Mountain of HeavyBaggage’ to move or ‘Carry’. He needs to remain cheerful and
not reveal how much this ‘Mountainous’ load is weighing himdown; otherwise he may not get the approval of those he is‘Carrying’ the load for. There would be no thanks and no “tips”if he were to complain, groan or grumble. ‘Porters’ do a lot ofhard work but don’t often get much appreciation or attention.
They are expected to just get on with the job, sometimes they
become almost invisible. This Symbol can also be an expressionof class-consciousness.
Oracle: There may be a load or a heavy burden to bear. It may beyour own burdens or could indeed be other people’s. Be carefulthat you are not doing too much for others as you may be carrying
their burdens for them. You could end up just helping people tohang on to their extra ‘Baggage’ through your desire to help out,
be useful and share the load. This can be a problem, weighingthem down when you are not available, and of course it can alsoweigh you down emotionally, as well as physically. It may be
that others are expecting you to shoulder their responsibilities.
Having so much to ‘Carry’ can lead to bad posture, bad backsor a distorted infrastructure. Are you going from one burdeningexperience to another? For some people, to have the service of a‘Porter’ can be a pleasant and well-earned respite from their dailystruggles. For others, there can be the expectation that someoneelse will always shoulder the load. That may be okay in a hotel or
a train station, but how appropriate is it in everyday life? Don’t
let yourself be used to carry other people’s “stuff”.
Keywords: Self-reliance. Owning other people’s ‘garbage’.Shouldering baggage or weight. Being weighed-down. Feelingresponsible for everything. Bad backs and posture. Carryingothers. Counseling people, taking on their emotions. Bad backs,shoulders, knees, etc. Strain and wear. Bearing the family guilt.
Luggage. Trolleys. Looking for tips.
The Caution: Being busy with other peoples’ problems.Unable to work for your own benefit. Carrying other peoples’
responsibilities. Being indispensable until the energy is all wornout. Not knowing when to say “no” to other’s demands. Theburden of debts. Being useful but unimportant.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 13
Everyone thinks his own burden
heavy.French Proverb
The burden which is well bornebecomes light.Ovid
Do not free the camel of theburden of his hump; you maybe freeing him from being a .
camel.Gilbert K. Chesterton
No one is useless in this worldwho lightens the burden of it to
anyone else.Charles Dickens
Your body is the baggage you
must carry through life. The
more excess baggage, theshorter the trip.Arnold Glasow
RESPONSIBILITY, n.Adetachable burden easilyshifted to the shoulders of God,
Fate, Fortune, Luck or one’sneighbor.Ambrose Bierce
Almost everybody walksaround with a vast burden ofimaginary limitations inside hishead. While the burden remains,personal success is as difficultto achieve as the conquest of
Everest with a sack of rocks tied
to your back.J.H. Brennan

2-14: ON THE BEACH, CHILDREN PLAY
WHILE SHELLFISH GROPE AT THE
EDGE OF THE WATER
Commentary: ‘On the Beach, Children Play While Shellfish Gropeat the Edge of the Water’ speaks of peaceful coexistence amongst
beings on different levels of evolution. The ‘Children are Playing’whilst the ‘Shellfish’ are feeding. Each is getting on with whatthey are doing in peaceful harmony. It shows the essential unityof all life, no matter how “evolved” each being is. Getting backto the basic elements, such as nature, with a sense of ‘Play’ willhelp alleviate the seriousness of any problems or stress.
Oracle: Allow your instincts to guide you in the process facingyou. Get on with your own activities, focus on these and enjoythem, regardless of what others are doing. Looking outside ofyour own sphere of operations may bring harm to others, as can
happen when ‘Children’ on the ‘Beach’ take ‘Shellfish’ and put
them in buckets. The day and the experience will come to an end
with the tide bringing another day and another episode in your
life. Sometimes you can feel confident and settled with how your
desires are being manifested in the world, while at other times youmay feel out of your depth with the expectations that the worldseems to have of you. In truth, you will find that most situationswill be a combination of both. Just be yourself, lighten up andrelax. The message is to enjoy those things that make sense and
just allow time to teach you how to deal with those things you
don’t understand. Try indulging in some time out by the waterand interact with nature. An insight into your problem is likelyto be revealed with the coming and going of the tide.
Keywords: Being self-sufficient. Looking after one’s own affairs.A sense of at-one-ment with all forms of life. Having a live and letlive attitude. Peripheral vision. Returning to the source. Feelingsafe in a natural environment. Playing alongside nature. Buildingsand castles. Playing in pools or baths. Buckets and spades. Sunprotection. Interacting without really interacting. Swimming.Sand, wind and sea. Rockpools. Shellfish, oysters, shrimp.
The Caution: Meddling in people’s lives. Restriction of play. Being
distracted. Sandcastles that will eventually get washed away. Not
knowing how to loosen up with others and relax into a naturalenvironment. Fussing that people aren't doing the 'right thing’.Sunburn and exposure to weather. Voyeurism.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 14
In every out thrust headland, in
every curving beach, in everygrain of sand there is a story of
the earth.Rachel Carson
|seem to have been only like
a boy playing on the seashore,
and diverting myself in nowand then finding a smootherpebble ora prettier shell thanordinary, whilst the great oceanof truth lay all undiscoveredbefore me.Isaac Newton
One cannot collect all the
beautiful shells on the beach.One can collect only a few,and
they are more beautiful if theyare few.Anne Morrow Lindbergh
To live and let live, without
clamor for distinction orrecognition ...to write truthfirst on the tablet of one’s ownheart - this is the sanity andperfection of living, and myhuman ideal.Mary Baker Eddy
Sit in reverie and watch the
changing color of the wavesthat break upon the idleseashore of the mind.
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

2-15: A MAN WITH A SILK HAT, MUFFLED
AGAINST THE COLD, BRAVES A
STORM
Commentary: ‘A Man’ in this Symbol is shown ‘Muffled Againstthe Storm’. He is experiencing a time of hardship and discomfort,
and is unable to avoid the difficulties that have arisen. He ‘Bravesa Storm’, yet he is wearing his ‘Silk Hat’. The ‘Silk Hat’ indicates
that he may be somewhat of an expensive and stylish dresser.The fact that he’s wearing it shows a somewhat ‘Brave’, dignifiedand optimistic attitude of confidence and hope for the future.However, people often don’t take other's difficulties seriously ifthey put on a brave and dignified attitude, dressing properly and
presenting things as if they were really okay.
Oracle: Someone may not be admitting to what’s really goingon or acting as if everything is just fine. There is a need to showdetermination, confidence and hope for the future, as this willencourage you and those around you. There may not be much
that can really be done; it’s just a difficult, ‘Stormy’ time. It’s thenature of life for things to turn around and improve. Forge aheadknowing that life will calm down and get easier. It is important toknow whether the ‘Storm’ is visible to everyone and not merely in
someone’s mind. The bad weather you perceive could be hidden
from others. Presenting a brave face to all you meet and hopingfor a better future often helps. However, it could lead to you notbeing taken seriously by others. ‘Brave the Storm’ and eventually
you will you be able to relax both your mind and body. Then
you will be able to, once again, show your individual style and
be appreciated.
Keywords: Inner poise being more important than outer
appearances. Braving stormy weather. Ploughing on through
difficulties. Being willing to weather storms and take on thehard times. Having tasks or errands to perform when onewould rather not. Hats, scarves and muffles. Sudden change ofcircumstances.
The Caution: Not showing your true feelings. Superficial showsof strength. Not noticing things improving. Always battling the
“elements”. Complaining and whining instead of getting on withthe task at hand. Wanting to be pampered and not face up to life’s
storms. Considering appearance before all else. Superficiality.Insufficient or inappropriate clothing or apparel. Refusing toprotect one's self from cold or harm.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 15
The measure of a man is the wayhe bears up under misfortune.Plutarch
The sum of the whole is this:walk and be happy, walk andbe healthy. The best way tolengthen out our days is to walk
steadily and with a purpose.Charles Dickens
There is many a good man to
be found under a shabby hat.Chinese Proverb
And all your future lies beneath
your hat.John Oldham
Keeping your clothes wellpressed will keep you from
looking hard-pressed.
Coleman Cox
It is easy enough to be pleasantwhen life blows by like a song.
But the man worthwhile is
the one who will smile wheneverything goes dead wrong.Ella Wheeler Wilcox
Patience serves as a protectionagainst wrongs as clothes doagainst cold. For ifyou put
on more clothes as the coldincreases, it will have no powerto hurt you.
Leonardo da Vinci
Never run after your own hat.Others will be delighted to do it.
Why spoil their fun?.
Mark Twain

2-16: AN OLD MAN IS ATTEMPTING,WITH A
DEGREE OF SUCCESS UNSUSPECTED
BY HIM,TO REVEAL THE MYSTERIES
TO A MOTLEY GROUP
Commentary: The ‘Old Man’ is someone who understands many
things. He is ‘Attempting to Reveal the Mysteries to a Group’ thatdon’t seem to understand, or at least they aren't readily showingthat they do. This is ‘A Motley Group’, which means it is made up
of people who may be different from each other in appearance,background, interests, etc. However, he is succeeding in teachingthem as he’s accomplishing a ‘Degree of Success Unsuspected byHim’. It is likely that the ‘Old Man’, or the teacher, is the one whomisunderstands what’s going on with the ‘Group’, or his students.He may see the superficial differences in the ‘Group’ as a barrier
to their ability to understand his message. It is more likely that
they are actually quite focused, but each in their own distinctor unique way. By imparting his knowledge, “The Mysteries’, the‘Old Man’ has unified the ‘Motley Group’.
Oracle: It may seem that nobody is paying attention to the adviceor wisdom that is being offered, but it is not the wisdom that is atfault. There may certainly be a need to alter the way informationis delivered to make it more easily understood, however it isalso important not to underestimate the capacity of the listeners
to comprehend the messages that are being imparted. Takeconfidence in the knowledge being given, or received, andhave less expectation of how people should behave, respond or
look. Remember that “conventional wisdom” does not always
overcome the human emotional issues of confidence and selfesteem. Be confident that the message is valuable enough to holdthe attention of those participating.
Keywords: The need to try a new approach. Challenging thestatus quo. Astrodrama. Being way ahead of one’s time. Gettingone’s message across in an innovative and creative way. Ateacher uniting diverse people in a common cause. Generation
gaps. Wisdom given with expectation. Ideas bringing peopletogether.
The Caution: Exaggerated opinion of one’s understanding ofthe situation. The mistaken belief that others need to knowsomething. Not being in touch with the “times”. Feeling outdated.Preaching old, possibly outworn ideas. Insecure feelings basedon conservative expectations of others.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 16
A teacher affects eternity;he can never tell where hisinfluence stops.Henry Brooks Adams
Think like a wise man butcommunicate in the language
of the people.William Butler Yeats
The more abstract the truthyou want to teach, the more
thoroughly you must seducethe senses to accept it.Friedrich Nietzsche
I have learnt silence from the
talkative, toleration from the
intolerant, and kindness fromthe unkind; yet strange,|am
ungrateful to these teachers.Khalil Gibran
When I was fourteen yearsold,I was amazed at howunintelligent my father was. Bythe time I turned twenty-one, I was astounded how much hehad learned in the last sevenyears.Mark Twain
You cannot teach a mananything; you can only helphim to find it within himself.
Galileo
The man with a new idea is a
crank until the idea succeeds.Mark Twain

2-17: A SYMBOLICAL BATTLE BETWEEN
“SWORDS'THE DISCIPLES OF MIGHT,
AND ‘TORCHES’,THE DISCIPLES OF
ENLIGHTENMENT
Commentary: ‘A Symbolical Battle’ is pictured here, between
the ‘Swords and Torches’. The ‘Swords’ are pictured to be‘The Disciples of Might’ and the ‘Torches’ ‘The Disciples ofEnlightenment’. The ‘Swords’ show weapons and strong-armtactics, whereas the ‘Torches’ are instruments that bring truthand light. Arguments over ideals can easily lead to 'Battles' and
war. This suggests a split between using power and strength and
using reason and intelligence.
Oracle: There is a struggle between practical needs and the
underlying reasons for having those needs. It can be that someonehas become so caught up in “what” they are trying to achieve
that they have probably lost sight of “why”. The endeavor to
bring ‘Enlightenment’ to people often meets with resistance,
particularly when this ‘Enlightenment’ will disrupt the usualprocess of things. One can see this in places where the mediahas a stranglehold on information. In some instances it is forpolitical agendas and in others it is for commercial reasons, but the
effect is the same: to achieve or to maintain a particular agenda
by persuasive force. ‘Battles’ are only truly worth fighting when
the ideals behind them are clearly believed in or understood.
To do this it is often important to pause and reassess why youare doing what you are doing. If fighting becomes a habit andloses its purpose, the spirit can become confused and therefore
weakened. Any confusion inside you is an indicator that thepower of the outer world needs to be reconsidered. How canthings be transformed and brought into the light of acceptanceand understanding so that the ‘Sword’ can be dropped and peacereign?
Keywords: The battle of “might versus light”. The Spear ofDestiny. Spiritual differences. Arguments. The story of Hitler.The Inquisition. The Crusades. Bringing love and light to warzones. The pen being mightier than the sword. Peace marches,Candles, torches. Weapons. The might of the media.
The Caution: Controlling those around with rational or bruteforce rather than with inner enlightenment or knowledge. Peoplearguing over ideals. Forcing opinions on each other. Religiousconflicts. War rallies. Propaganda.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 17
Let us have faith that right
makes might.Abraham Lincoln
A blow with a word strikesdeeper than a blow withasword.
Robert Burton
People who fight fire with fireusually end up with ashes.
Abigail Van Buren
Wisdom is always anovermatch for strength.Phaedrus
Imagination is the one weaponin the war against reality.
Jules de Gaultier
Constantly choosing the lesser
of two evils is still choosing evil.Jerry Garcia
Truth is a torch that shinesthrough the fog withoutdispelling it.Claude A. Helvétius
Bring on your tear gas; bringon your grenades, your newsupplies of Mace, your statetroopers and even your
national guards. But let the
record show we ain't going tobe turned around.Ralph Abernathy
War is hell.General William Sherman

2-18: A WOMAN AIRING AN OLD BAG
THROUGH A SUNNY WINDOWTO
GIVE IT AIR AND SUNSHINE
Commentary: The ‘Woman’ pictured here is ‘Airing an Old BagThrough a Sunny Window to Give it Air and Sunshine’. This
shows the need to regularly clean out old and outworn habits,belongings and attitudes. Sometimes we accumulate so many bitsand pieces, the vast majority being possessions from the past,that our lives can become clogged up and stagnant. Along withour physical world, this can also apply to our minds, emotions
and memories.
Oracle: By holding onto everything old or outworn in your
environment or, indeed, inside your self, you create clutter thatrestricts your well-being and your future. Consider discardinganything that doesn’t measure up. Do you really need thesepossessions, habits or thoughts these days? Bringing these thingsto the outer world will enable you to see if they are still relevantor useful in the clear light of day. Taking time to clean up oldhabits and memories can change things for the better. What
relevance do these things have for your future? It can be goodto clean out your cupboards and drawers and get the dust out ofall the corners. Washing sheets, towels and clothes can removethat old and moldy feeling. Doing this may inspire solutions to oldproblems. It is a good opportunity to move to sunnier conditions,wherever or whatever these may be. It is probably important totalk about things that are bothering you. It may be wise to talkthrough your thoughts and ideas with someone you trust. Youwill then be able to make better sense of what’s going on. In theprocess you may learn a lot about yourself. Just be careful not to
reveal too much, to too many people. Act with discretion. Now isthe time to seize the moment—bring light and air to everythingyou can, inside and out.
Keywords: Psychoanalysis. Past life regressions or memories.Doing domestic chores with a feeling of purpose. Workshopping ideas. Bringing light and freshness to old feelings.Renewal. Throwing out the old or outlived. Cleaning out rooms.Renovations. Letting the sunshine in.
The Caution: Expecting others to take responsibility for cleaningup and airing out. Hanging on to outworn things and memories.Airing one’s ‘dirty laundry’ in public. Rehashing old situations.Going over the same ground over and over. Bringing up issueswhen it’s inappropriate. Depressed attitudes.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 18
Better keep yourself clean and
bright; you are the windowthrough which you must see
the world.George Bernard Shaw
od doesn’t seek for goldenvessels, and does not ask for
silver ones, but He must have
clean ones.Dwight L. Moody
Cleanliness is next to godliness.John Wesley
A new broom sweeps clean.
Romanian Proverb
It was not... that she wasunaware of the frayed andragged edges of life. She wouldmerely iron them out with afirm hand and neatly hem themdown.P.D. James
A safe but sometimes chilly wayof recalling the past is to forceopen a crammed drawer. Ifyouare searching for anything in
particular, you don’t find it, butsomething falls out at the backthat is often more interesting.James Matthew Barrie
No country has washed more
dirty laundry in public than wehave.Shirley Temple Black
Cleanliness is next to
impossible.
Saying

2-19: A NEW CONTINENT IS RISING OUT
OF THE OCEAN
Commentary: The Symbol of ‘A New Continent Rising Out of the_ Ocean’ is a powerful image of new opportunities and a whole newsphere of operation. When a land mass emerges from the ocean
_~ the ‘New Continent’ that is ‘Rising’ - there is usually some kindof eruption or disruption that precedes it. A whole field of activity
is coming to light as a fresh, new arena of opportunity erupts.
Oracle: A ‘New Continent’ is ‘Rising Out of the Ocean’; it mightfeel as though it is coming out of nowhere, or from somewhereyou didn’t expect, however things have probably been building
up for some time. Perhaps you saw it coming, or maybe youweren't aware that the changes would go as far as they have.One thing’s for sure: it is coming from somewhere deep within
your emotional and spiritual development. There is a promise ofrewards and brand new beginnings. However, this is probablyonly the beginning. There is much work to be done developingthis possibility into something fertile and productive. Observe
and learn from the things that are erupting into your consciousreality. You will (or will have to) find that extra spark to createa brand new, original opportunity. What is possible, and what is
not, will become more obvious as time goes on. You may feel alittle alienated in this new ‘Continent’ or sphere of activity, butthat’s only relative to the conditions of what it is that you're leaving
behind. There has probably been a recent period of throwing out
things that haven’t worked, or cluttered up your life and been in
the way of your forward growth. What you’ve done or achievedin the past has led to this, but these new beginnings need to bemet with a fresh sense of purpose, confidence and possibility.
Keywords: Enormous potentiality emerging. New trends andways of being. Sudden eruptions of talent or fields of endeavor.The greenhouse effect. Global warming. Atlantis and otherancient underwater cities. Evolution. Patience. Developing slowlybut surely. Emerging generations of people. New environments.
Things feeling suddenly foreign. The birth of a nation. Migration.Land masses. Endeavouring to hold life together under theenormous pressure of the new.
The Caution: Continually seeking “new worlds” rather thanfinding a place in the existing one. No responsibility for the birth
of the new. No respect for the old or established. Not shifting orevolving. Staying stuck in old realities.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 19
One does not discover newcontinents without consentingto lose sight of the shore for avery long time.Andre Gide
USTRALIA, n.A country lying inthe South Sea, whose industrialand commercial developmenthas been unspeakably retardedby an unfortunate disputeamong geographers as towhether it is a continent or an
island.
Ambrose Bierce
Today, the treacherous,unexplored areas of the worldare not in continents or seas— they are in the minds of men.Allen Claxton
I know that Nature designs thatthis whole continent, not merely
these thirty-six states, shallbe, sooner or later, within themagic circle of the Americanunion.William Seward
Nay, be a Columbus to wholenew continents and worldswithin you, opening new
channels, not of trade, but of
thought.Henry David Thoreau
There are continents and seas
in the moral world, to whichevery man is an isthmus or inlet,yet unexplored by him.Henry David Thoreau

2-20: WISPS OF CLOUDS, LIKE WINGS, ARE
STREAMING ACROSS THE SKY
Commentary: The ‘Wisps of Clouds’ are ‘Like Wings StreamingAcross the Sky’. This Symbol implies emotions or situations thatare shifting and can feel as though they could change directionquickly. The ‘Wisps of Clouds’ and can indicate fleeting moments
and conditions that aren’t stable or have any longevity. Sometimeswe look up at clouds, such as those shown here, in awe andwonder at how fast they are racing, and here they are seen‘Streaming Across the Sky’. .
Oracle: You may feel driven forward, almost out of your owncontrol. In doing so you run the risk of either going past thingstoo quickly, or tiring if you try to resist the momentum of forwardpush. It may be best to let the superficial excitement affect you
and then be prepared to go back and sort out the details later.However, there can be a danger in making decisions and takingaction too quickly; without enough consideration. You may find
that you have no choice. You have an opportunity before you,
and it could feel like it’s now or never and you must seize the day.Another element of this Symbol is that there can be very littleactually going on around you, but there is so much going on overyour head. Your imagination is active, but perhaps you are notreally aware of it. You may find that your mind is working out
what to do in this situation and in the next day or so “the coin willdrop”. Enjoying the pleasant “weather” around you and allowing
the natural energies to blow away the confusing aspects of yourlife will lead to things being sorted out before too long.
Keywords: Fleeting opportunities or inspiration. Feeling things
“in the wind”. Seeking a change in the weather. Thinking on yourfeet. Doing things at a fast pace. Placing too much importanceon the fast movement of the issue at hand. Wasting energyon nonessentials. Things floating in the air. Going at full tilt.
Skywriting. Vapor trails. Things, here one minute—gone the next.Messages read from clouds. Planes. The beauty of the sky.
The Caution: Resistance to the creative flow. Superficialexcitement. Unstoppable progress. Destructive development.
Forces beyond your control. Making unformed or uninformeddecisions on a whim. Not thinking things through. Impatience.Continual impermanence. Lack of rest or sleep. Contrails. Weather
control. Overcast skies.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 20
The golden moments in thestream of life rush past us, and
we see nothing but sand; theangels come to visit us, and we
only know them when they aregone.George Eliot
Every event that aman wouldmaster must be mounted
on the run,and no man evercaught the reins of a thoughtexcept as it galloped past him.Oliver Wendell Holmes
lam not a speed-reader.|ama
speed understander.Isaac Asimov
All human joys are swift of wing,For heaven doth so allotit;That
when you get an easy thing, You
find you haven't gotit.
Eugene Field
The cloud never comes in thequarter of the horizon fromwhich we watch for it.
Elizabeth Gaskell
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Proverb
A great wind is blowing,
and that gives you eitherimagination or a headache.
Catherine the Great

2-21: A MOVING FINGER POINTS TO
SIGNIFICANT PASSAGES IN A BOOK
Commentary: ‘A Moving Finger’ is said to be pointing to‘Significant Passages in a Book’. This speaks about informationbeing sought through the written word. However, the ‘Moving
Finger’ can also be your own thoughts, suggestions from thosearound you, or inspirations from meditations or dreams. Whatever
the ‘Book’ may be, it will contain ‘Significant Passages’, it will
tell you something useful and necessary now. It can be a classic
of literature, or it can be something as every day as a street map
or telephone book.
Oracle: In your situation, something needs to be researched,or looked up, in order to ‘Point To’ what is relevant and what isnot. When you realize what the ‘Significant Passages’ are, thesolution will become clear. Even if you feel you already know allabout it dike you have read the book) there is more informationto be gleaned by going carefully through what’s in front of you,
missing nothing. Fine details may have been overlooked or notconsidered. Perhaps you need to check them out. However,do be discriminating about what really is ‘Significant’ anduseful. Be wary of relying purely on the written word. Strictapplications of the written word can lead to a lack of innovation
and fundamentalism. Going by the ‘Book’ or the rules can beuseful and all to the good, but information is often best appliedto inspire creative and spontaneous solutions. Someone may bementally or emotionally “keeping a book” of the things that have
happened or have been done by others. If things are not quiteright at the moment, maybe you need to read, or pay attention
to, any instructions or lessons more carefully. Read the fine print
and look carefully at any conclusions or contracts. Also, solutionscan be found by flipping open a ‘Book’ and placing a finger ona line or paragraph. This can lead to amazing insights into justwhat is bothering you.
Keywords: Finding the essential details of a situation anddisregarding the rest. The cursor on the computer screen. Readingand writing books. Keeping records. Instruction manuals. Lawyersand the law. Editing. Reviewing. Reference books. Reading the
Oracle. Memories. Quoting scripture. Testimony. Rules.
The Caution: Doing things because they need to be done and only
going by the rules of the book. Automated responses. Religiousfundamentalism. Only doing those things that are officiallysanctioned. Not observing the entire picture. Keeping tallies.
Flaunting the rules.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 21
The telephone book is full offacts, but it doesn’t contain asingle idea.Mortimer Adler
The man who does not readgood books has no advantageover the man who cannot read
them.
Mark Twain
Beware the man of one book.St. Thomas Aquinas
Close the book and open your
heart.
Nathan Rozenfarb—on
religious conflicts
The skilled theologian canwrest from any scripture thatwhich will serve his purpose.
Bhagavad Gita
When I am attacked by gloomythoughts, nothing helps me so
much as running to my books,
They quickly absorb me andbanish the clouds from my mind.Michel Eyquem de Montaigne
We sometimes get all the
information, but we refuse to getthe message.Cullen Hightower
A verbal contract isn’t worth the
paper it’s written on.Samuel Goldwyn
I hate quotations.Ralph Waldo Emerson

2-22: A WHITE DOVE FLYING STRAIGHT AND FEARLESSLY OVER TROUBLED WATERS
Commentary: The 'White Dove' is a reassuring Symbol of messages regarding peace, hope and redemption. That the 'White Dove' is Flying Straight and Fearlessly. Over Troubled Waters' show a clear mission that needs to be fulfilled, without worrying about any personal consequences. Noah sent out a 'White Dove' from the Ark. Ir flew Straight and Fearlessly Over Troubled Waters, bringing back an olive branch, a sign that landfall was near and redemption was at hand.
Oracle: This Symbol shows the need for hope and help to bedelivered to those who need it. Although there may be troubleall around, you will be able to rise above it and find safe ground.Even though you may be lost from your loved ones’ sight for a
while and they may feel abandoned, you will eventually return
to them safely. Alternatively, you may be guiding them to safetyand reassurance or, they may be returning to you. Bringing hope,sustenance and comfort to others is a blessing to all involved. The‘Dove’ of this Symbol, by ‘Flying Straight and Fearlessly’, bringsthe message to stay on course, go straight ahead and don’t worryabout what’s happening around you. Soon there will be a signal
of better times and relief from your concerns. Oftentimes it’snot possible for us to see what is just beyond our sight, whether
we re looking into the future or trying to understand the present.If things that are outside of your control or influence ‘Trouble’
you, then you may need to ask for a message that will reassureyou. The ‘Dove’ is often portrayed as a Symbol of the soul. Trysending out a ‘Dove’ from your spiritual center, and ask for whatyou require in order to bring things back to safe ground again.
Equally, you may need to send a message to those who are feelingleft out and needing love and assistance.
Keywords: Transcending worries through spiritual awareness.Prophetic missions. Peace. Healing messages from the “other side”.
Overcoming phobias. Fearlessness. Feelings of immortality. Going
straight for the objective. Calming troubled minds. Redemptionand messages of hope. Couriers.
The Caution: Being too caught up in worries. Not accepting that things are getting better or accepting reassurance from others. Not being cautions of risks. Being daunted by an ominous task. Gossip. Spreading rumors.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 22
Peace can be reached throughmeditation on the knowledge
which dreams give. Peacecan also be reached throughconcentration upon that whichis dearest to the heart.Patanjali
If you can't be free, be a mystery.Rita Dove
Flying might not be all plainsailing, but the fun of it is worth
the price.
Amelia Earhart
O Swallow, Swallow, flying,flying South, Fly to her, and fallupon her gilded eaves, And tell
her, tell her, what! tell to thee.
Lord Alfred Tennyson
I want to send the signal to ourenemy that you have aroused acompassionate and decent andmighty nation, and we’re goingto hunt you down.George Bush Jnr
Loose lips sink ships.
Saying
Oh that! had wings like a dove!For then I would fly away, andbe at rest.
The Bible
I survived that trouble solikewise may I survive this one.Anon

2-23: A JEWELRY SHOP FILLED WITH THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT JEWELS
Commentary: ‘A Jewelry Shop Filled With the Most MagnificentJewels’ speaks of a high degree of integrity, talent and worth thatis able to be valued, seen and appreciated. There can be great
pleasure to be enjoyed in marking our achievement in life withenduring and satisfying symbols, such as gemstones, jewelry orcrystals. Also, knowing how to recognize and appreciate talent,
joy and beauty can be its own reward.
Oracle: This is a time to admire the achievements of othersand allow yours to be admired too. Realize that what is neededis either at hand, or soon will be. Believing in yourself canbring a sense of reward, and can allow you to reach for higheraspirations. If you need help believing in yourself, try wearing a
beautiful piece of jewelry that has a lot of meaning for you. Thiscan bring a wonderful sense of self worth, pride and beauty intoyour life. Crystals and jewelry may be received, or somehow bringa message. It can be a testament to how talented, gracious andcultured our lives and achievements are. It is good to remember
that sometimes our most precious possessions are rarely trulyowned by us, they will most likely survive well beyond our time.
It is partly this longevity and contribution to the future that makesthem so precious. Having a piece of jewelry or crystal nearby canbe a reminder of your self-worth, beauty and integrity. Sometimesbuying a special piece, such asa crystal, a necklace, earrings, ringor brooch can lift your spirits.
Keywords: Great talent, wealth, rewards and gifts. Beautythat brings joy. Materialization of perfection. Judges of worth.
Things that shine. Jewelry, stones, gold and silver. Shops,
especially those that have beautiful displays. The rewards andbounty of the natural world. Treasure of any description. Purity.
Genius. Crystals. Security guards. Window shopping. PersonalAdornments. Things that glimmer.
The Caution: Wanting more than one’s share of rewards andspoils, even if there is plenty to share. Things for looking at, nottouching. Always wanting more. Being dazzled by possessions.
Greed. Stealing or wanting other people’s valuables. Superficial
displays. The need for security. Jealousy. Theft. Beauty that coversup a lack of worth, talent or depth. Faking authenticity. Having
to have bars on the windows. Longing for ownership. Objectsof envy.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 23
If you really put a small valueupon yourself, rest assured thatthe world will not raise yourprice.Anon
Your treasure house is within;it contains all you'll ever need.Hui-Hai
The fortune, which nobody sees,makes a person happy andunenvied.
Francis Bacon
He does not posses wealth
that allows it to possess him.
Benjamin Franklin
Who finds a faithful friend, findsa treasure.Jewish Saying
Not on one strand are all life’sjewels strung.William Morris
The difference between falsememories and true ones is thesame as for jewels: it is alwaysthe false ones that look themost real, the most brilliant.
Salvador Dali
The man who treasures hisfriends is usually solid goldhimself.Marjorie Holmes
Treasure your relationships, notyour possessions.Anthony J. D’Angelo

2-24: AN INDIAN WARRIOR RIDING FIERCELY WITH HUMAN SCALPS HANGING AT HIST BELT
Commentary: 'An Indian Warrior Riding Fiercely With Human Scalps Hanging at His Belt' is a Symbol of great force and conquest. 'Scalping' is often associated with Amerian Indians. Long ago, the English paid bounties for Orish scalps. The Indians actually learnt the practice of 'Scalping' from the Europeans, where it was a well-established tradition. The original Indian tradition was for the 'Warrior' to steal something from the person conquered to show how strong his medicine was. Regardless, a vengeful heart creates only sadness for all concerned, and there are no real winners in the end.
Oracle: Someone may have been holding back from pursuing whatthey’ve wanted and are now going after all they can get. The “usor them” mentality can lead to disputes, and separations and the
forgetting of a sense of other people’s humanity. Perhaps you haven'tbeen given a fair share of things by society, or these have literallybeen taken from you. As a chain reaction can be set off with this
Symbol, there needs to be care taken that a real “war” is not startedwith people seeking revenge. Consider everyone's rights as this
can point to the invasion of other people’s space or territory. There
may be a need for someone to mark their territory and claim theirdues. Look to see if there are barriers up to prevent invasions ofterritory, yours or another’s. Be wary of excessive competition, inthe marketplace or the home, as this can scare people off - makingthe environment unsafe and unsound. Taken to its extreme, this
Symbol can point to all-out feuds between people.Alternatively, witha level of controlled aggression and taking the necessary risks, youcan be recognized for your abilities as a successful leader, preparedto face danger and succeed. Bravery and honor are often admiredand respected by others.
Keywords: Race wars. Claiming one’s soil. Trophies of conquest.Aggression. Basic instincts. Territoriality. Chain reactions. Tit-for-tat.Competitive natures. Risks for the clan or group. Trophies, medals
and diplomas. Striving for recognition and respect, deserved or
not. Blood and sacrifice. Tribes mourning their losses. Ritualistic
behaviors. Marking victories. War crimes. Ticket scalpers.
The Caution: Conquering others without emotion. Showing off to intimidate others. Domination and ruthlessness. Taking things because one can. Violation of other's space. Testoterone. Feeling taken advantage of Notches on the belt, or gun. Cycles of retribution Vengeace Taking scalps
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 24
To win without risk is totriumph without glory.Pierre Corneille
There is no decent place tostand in a massacre.
Leonard Cohen
Do not throw the arrow whichwill return against you.Kurdish Proverb
Anger will never disappear solong as thoughts of resentment
are cherished in the mind.Anger will disappear just as
soon as thoughts of resentment
are forgotten.Buddha
You win battles by knowing theenemy's timing, and using atiming which the enemy doesnot expect.Miyamoto Musashi
Courage is being scared todeath butsaddling up anyway.John Wayne
He that is not with me is againstme.The Bible
There are many humorousthings in the world:amongthem the white man’s notion
that he is less savage than theother savages.
Mark Twain

2-25: A LARGE WELL-KEPT PUBLIC PARK
Commentary: ‘A Large Public Park’ implies a big area of landthat has been kept aside from development for the enjoyment ofthe ‘Public’. The fact that it is ‘Well-Kept’ shows that the ‘Park’has gardens and public amenities, is well looked after and cleanof mess and rubbish. People are able to meet together, play ball,
lie in the sun and, perhaps, walk their dog in safety. There’s lots
of room to move and things are in their rightful place. In many
ways our society is a ‘Public Park’ and we each play a part in its
beauty and success, whether our contribution is by working on
the gardens or enjoying the amenities.
Oracle: You are part of something important, but you are only
a part. It is when everyone works together that we can createa useful and lasting result that will be of benefit to the wholecommunity. However, in a controlled and interdependentsituation there can be the perception of a lack of privacy and
the inability to get completely away from others. Hence, you may
need to be mindful of the fact that other people can always seewhat you are doing. The best thing is to work together to createthe cooperation and consideration that will afford privacy for all
areas of life. In this situation it is not only a right, but also a wellearned reward. ‘Parks’ are for recreation, but are you aware of
what recreation means to you? Are you ina balanced state of workand play? Your leisure time needs to be tended to and organized,as much as your work life. However, a lot of maintenance maybe required just to keep the situation under control. Also, othersmay have a vested interest in taking over the space or using it for
something that wasn’t intended, such as property development.
Every community needs an area for recreation and enjoyment andit should be protected, nourished and looked after.
Keywords: Paying attention to appearances. People living inpeace. Space for everyone. People taking to the streets. Park
benches, swings, slippery dips and sandpits. Charities and theirwork. Maintaining order. Gardens and gardening. Town planning.Work of the few for the pleasure of the many. Appearances keptimmaculate. Golf and other sports. Picnics. Eating alfresco.
Meeting others out in the open. Large plots of land. Acreage.Subdividing and development. Suburbia.
The Caution: Difficulty in finding privacy. People continually coming by. Having so much to look after without much help Public possessions being sold off for the benefit of a few Mugging and robberies Littering and graffiti.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 25
Civilization is the progresstoward a society of privacy.
The savage’s whole existence is
public, ruled by the laws of his
tribe. Civilization is the process
of setting man free from men.
Ayn Rand
The materials of city planningare: sky, space, trees, steel andcement, in that order and thathierarchy.Le Corbusier
When you see the earth from
space, you don't see anydivisions of nation-states there.This may be the symbol of the
new mythology to come; this isthe country we will celebrate,and these are the people we are
one with.
Joseph Campbell
He enjoys true leisure who hastime to improve his soul's estate.Henry David Thoreau
Ifyou are losing your leisure,look out! You are losing yoursoul.Logan Pearsall Smith
The primary purpose of a liberaleducation is to make one’smind a pleasant place in whichto spend one’s leisure.Sydney J. Harris

2-26: A SPANIARD SERENADING HIS SENORITA
Commentary: 'A Spaniard Serenading His Senorita is a lovely image of singing music, romance and love. The Spaniard pours his heart out to his beloved in the hope that she will listen and respond to his advances. Beautiful words and music can lift the spirits and we all need a little romance now and then! The Spaniard is Serenading his love, his 'Senorita', who may or may not know the depth of his feeling. Whether she accepts his adcances or rejects them, this need not stop him from celebrating his feelings in a show of emotion.
Oracle: In this situation there is no guarantee of getting yourmessage across, but you must act if you expect any chance of
success. It is by being brave and confident enough to put our
feelings on public display that we can convince others of our
sincerity. It is possible that the worst that could be damaged is
your ego, so think positively and play your role with enthusiasmand passion. However, be wary of insincerity or coming on toostrongly. This Symbol can also point to people covering up theirreal feelings because they are looking for a calculated responsefrom another. This ‘Serenade’ should not be like some kind ofdesperate act, but, instead, an act of devotion and love. Trueexpressions of feeling can lead to grand actions and reactions.The situation around the question is full of emotion and passion.
To say “I love you” or “I care for you” or “I believe in you” or “I
trust you” to those who want to hear it makes it even more specialand encouraging. The confirmation of deep feelings is rewardingto all involved.
eywords: Looking through pretence. Shared feelings, love or
passion. Spontaneity. Welling expressions of romance. Being intune with another. Soul mates. Chivalry. Reverting back to oldmethods of relating. Spinning tales to get a response. Knowingwhat to say and when. Music, singing, crooning, talking.
Instruments. The use of the voice. Foreign voices. Guitars. Gettingone's message across.
The Caution: A ruse performed to achieve a goal by decception Lies, decceit and propaganda. Not believing messages given by loved ones. Feeling like something is missing from a relationship. Superficial judgments of how things should look or be. Emotional manipulation. Selfish agendas. Things said merely to sway someone's feelings. Empty promises or declarations Pouring out the heart to deaf ears.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 26
When love is not madness, it is
not love.Spanish Proverb
Flattery is like cologne water, tobe smelt of, not swallowed.Josh Billings
Latins are tenderly enthusiastic.In Brazil they throw flowers atyou. In Argentina they throwthemselves.Marlene Dietrich
If music be the food of love, playon.William Shakespeare
You're the Nile, You’re the Towerof Pisa, You’re the smile, On theMona Lisa.
Cole Porter
Tell me about yourself—yourstruggles, your dreams, yourtelephone number.Peter Arno
The first man to compare thecheeks of a young woman toarose was obviously a poet; the
first to repeat it was possibly anidiot.
Salvador Dali
Give her two red roses, eachwith a note. The first note says,“For the woman! love’ and thesecond, “For my best friend.”Anon

2-27: AN OLD INDIAN WOMAN SELLING BEADS AND TRINKETS
Commentary: ‘An Old Indian Woman’ is ‘Selling Beads and
Trinkets’. She probably spends a great deal of her time selling
these small products of her culture for very little reward or realmonetary return. The modern, and somewhat foreign, world oftenshows little regard and doesn’t respect the crafts and skills thatare probably well respected within her tribe. Despite this lackof appreciation, the ‘Old Indian Woman’ can still enjoy a deepunderstanding of her self worth and the dignity of her identity and
tribal origins. However, she may be capable of much more: thatshe is reduced to ‘Selling Beads and Trinkets’ is a measure of thepoor treatment this world gives to those who are less fortunate,older, or who have fewer resources for making a living.
Oracle: Do not underestimate yourself or restrict yourself to what
you think others believe you are capable of. Everybody has talents
and abilities, including you. You may be placing limitations on
your capabilities and it is it these very limitations that can truly
reveal to you hidden talents and skills that are sometimes takenfor granted. Having belief in what you’re doing will bring rewardsat the end of the day. Sometimes it is necessary to do things thatseem below your true station in life in order to survive, but true
survival begins in your heart and your belief in yourself. Positiveaffirmations are useful at this time - have faith in yourself andthe products of your culture. Don’t wait for passers-by to stopand pay attention to you or what you have to offer. Regardless oftheir actual monetary value, these ‘Beads and Trinkets’, whateverthey may be, can be beautiful, worthwhile and useful souvenirsto both yourself and others.
Keywords: Older, wiser elements of society making offerings to
the younger, less integrated. Small, but worthy products. Adapting
to changing conditions, particularly monetary or financial.Working hard for small returns and rewards. Battling againstthe odds. Selling the products of one’s culture. Artifacts. Jewelry.
Handicrafts. Retailing. Supplying the populace with beautifulthings. Markets and stalls. Patience. Bartering and bargaining.
The Caution: Looking down on those that seem less fortunate.Loss of culture and traditional duties. Menial jobs. Devaluing
things or overvaluing junk. Feeling that you have nothing to offer.Waiting for others to validate your worth. Bickering over money.Feeling 'cursed' with one's lot in life. Lack of the respect for the
arts. Being stuck in the marketplace. Sweat shops.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 27
Accomplishment of purpose
is better than making a profit.
Hausa Proverb
There are very honest peoplewho do not think that theyhave had a bargain unless
they have cheated a merchant.
Anatole France
Perhaps middle age is, or shouldbe, a period of shedding shells:
the shell of ambition, the shell
of material accumulations andpossessions, and the shell of theego.Anne Morrow Lindbergh
Business has only two basicfunctions—marketing andinnovation.Peter Drucker
Each man takes care that his
neighbor shall not cheat him.But a day comes when he
begins to care that he does not
cheat his neighbor. Then all
goes well —he has changed hismarket-cart into a chariot ofthe sun.Ralph Waldo Emerson
We get paid for bringing valueto the market place.
Jim Rohn
By virtue of exchange, oneman's prosperity is beneficial to
all others.
Frederic Bastiat

2-28: A WOMAN IN MIDDLE LIFE STANDS IN RAPT SUDDEN REALIZATION OF FORGOTTEN CHARMS, IN UNEXPECTED RECOVERY OF ROMANCE
Commentary: The ‘Woman in Middle Life’ has found an‘Unexpected Recovery of Romance’. She has realized that ‘Romance’is not something that is only for the young; there is no time limit on
the possibility of love and passion. The ‘Woman’ has found herself in‘Rapt Sudden Realization’ and her ‘Romantic’ longings and feelingshave come flooding back. On the physical level, there can be a rush
of hormones that back up these feelings. This Symbol shows that a
surprising ‘Realization’ can lead to sudden and overpowering joy.
Oracle: Love and 'Romance' can dawn on us ‘Suddenly’. When we
are confronted by love it can come as a surprise as passions rise againin our lives. No matter what your age, there can be the ‘Realization’
that the ‘Charms’ of life have not deserted you, and it is unwise to
listen to those who try to suppress or judge. These feelings of lovecan be very strong as one is no longer flushed with the naiveté andinnocence of youth. It can be even better now because you knowthe pitfalls and can value and make the most of what’s happening.You know not to be falsely swept off your feet and misguided byoverreaction. Also, this should not be a time of desperation whereyou have to take whatever love and attention you can get. With
a mature attitude, you can have a deep understanding of what is
possible and you can choose to become involved, or not, for all
the right reasons. Even if the ‘Romance’ fades, you will find a new
lease of life through a reawakening to life’s possibilities. However,
‘Romance’ can indicate many things; it can be a new passion forcooking, gardening, painting, music, astrology - anything. Anythingthat lights the fires in the heart can be ‘Romantic’—so open yourheart and enjoy. Enjoy life more and more. This positive shift can
lead to many good things—one of them could be a new lease oflife itself.
Keywords: Finding a renewal of love, knowledge, and interest whenit looked like all opportunities had passed. Second chances. Starting
over. Menopause. Romance renewed. Awakening to life’s promises.Flowering of love, life and joy. Sudden realizations.
The Caution: Believing love and romance long gone. Denyingemotional expression because of social expectation. Losingheart and feeling unloved. Having no time for romance due to
responsibilities. Being skeptical of love, thinking it not possible or
realistic. Resenting the aged finding love. Fickleness.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 28
If grass can grow throughcement, love can find you atevery time in your life.
Cher
Probably the happiest period inlife most frequently is in middleage, when the eager passionsof youth are cooled, and theinfirmities of age not yet begun.Thomas Arnold
We in middle age requireadventure.Amanda Cross
One of the many things nobody
ever tells you about middle ageis that it’s such a nice change
from being young.
Dorothy Canfield Fisher
Middle age is when you're
sitting at home on Saturday
night and the telephone ringsand you hope it isn’t for you.Ogden Nash
It heartens me to think of Verdiwho composed thunderingoperas in his eighties;
Michelangelo who did finework in his ninetieth year, andTitian, who painted betterthan ever in his one hundredth.James Michener
Aging is not lost youth’ but anew stage of opportunity andstrength.Betty Friedan

2-29: TWO COBBLERS WORKING SIDE BY
SIDE AT A TABLE
Commentary: The ‘Two Cobblers’ are ‘Working Side by Side at
a Table’. ‘Cobblers’ make and repair shoes and shoes cover andprotect the feet. In a spiritual context the feet are said to be thesymbol of “understanding”. The ‘Cobblers’ are working together‘Side by Side’ and yet both are accomplished in their own uniqueway. Because there are ‘Two’ of them, they may see things in quitecontrasting ways, which can enrich any projects they undertake.Equal partnerships can bring a sense of greater accomplishmentto projects or the tasks at hand. The 'Cobblers' work togetherwith cooperation and mutual respect, bringing their individual
talents and tools to the ‘Table’.
Oracle: In order to get the best results, you need to work
cooperatively with someone who has skills that are equal or
complimentary to yours, along with a sharing of similar interests.
A partnership that brings together talent and energy will achieve alot more than any solo effort now. If someone has talents that youdon’t, this can lead to a greater sharing of knowledge, resourcesand materials. By sharing tasks without ego or competitionthe outcome is not only better, but also more harmonious andsatisfying. It may be that you are looking for someone who cancompliment your work. This Symbol implies that such a person
will materialize. Remember the importance of your part andwhat you contribute. It is also important not to allow jealousy to
interfere with any working partnership. The rewards along withthe toil need to be shared. Couples working successfully at a taskor duty can end up learning more about each other and the worldthey inhabit. However, if working together closely is not exercisedcarefully, it may bring feelings of criticism and judgment. Equality
and respect is important. Done successfully, this will ensure that
people will want to continue working ‘Side by Side’.
Keywords: People sharing quietly and persistently in their
labor. Equal opportunities and equal responsibilities. Skillscomplimenting one another. Sharing materials, tools and tasks.Repairs to the soul. Reflexology. Partnerships. Work benches.Demarcations of work. The marriage of minds.
The Caution: Attempting to complete a task with sharedresponsibilities and yet gain all the credit. Committing to tasks
that don’t bring real satisfaction or reward. Fighting over “who hasto do what”. Bickering. Feeling like one’s work is not appreciated.Arguing over the use of appliances or tools. Co-dependance.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 29
Two heads are better than one.Old Saying
Two are better than one
because they have a goodreward for their labor. For if
they fall, one will lift up hiscompanion. But woe to him
who is alone when he falls, forhe has no one to help lift himup.The Bible
A problem shared is a problemhalved.
Old Saying
He that would perfect his workmust first sharpen his tools.
Confucius
If two men on a job agree allthe time, then one is useless. Ifthey disagree all the time, thenboth are useless.Darryl F. Zanuck
When two men in businessalways agree, one of them isunnecessary.William Wrigley, Jr.
Forty for you, sixty for me, And
equal partners we will be.
Gerald Barzan
I was always an independent,
even when I had partners.
Samuel Goldwyn

2-30: A PEACOCK PARADING ON THE TERRACE OF AN OLD CASTLE
Commentary: 'A Peacock' is 'Parading', showing off his fine feathers and beauty. Peacocks were often installed in regal palaces as a show of opulence or extravagance. This 'Peacock" is 'Parading on the Terrace of an Old Castle' which shows that he is in a place that has all of the trappings of wealth and tradition. The situation is probably well established, but as it is 'Old', it is probably also slowly breaking apart and showing signs of crumbling. 'Peacock' can be a reminder of the "grand old days". They are very territorial and will remain in a place long after the people have gone. Because of the many eyes displayed on their feathers they are said to be forever awake. 'Peacocks' are used as guard dogs in India because they make a shrieking noise when they perceive intrusion or danger.
Oracle: In this situation there is a need to maintain your graceand pride whilst also maintaining a sense of being the center ofattention. Polite behavior and the correct presentation of form
are of vital importance and pride in one’s inheritance is to beadmired, but not overdone. Too much pride, and elitism, canlead to a feeling of being alone and the roof collapsing in onwhat was possibly once a magnificent empire. Remember: pridecomes before a fall. You may have to accept that your situation or
location may one day change, even if you fear that much will be
lost. The key is to enjoy the beauty that is around you every dayand take your sense of beauty and elegance with you everywhereyou go. This Symbol can also point to people showing off andthinking they’re better than others because of social prestige. Isthere any danger of invasion of some kind?
Keywords: Tradition feeding ego-centered attraction. Grace anddignity. Splendor. Etiquette. Gardening. Enjoying the environmentfor its nature and beauty. Peacocks as “the watchers” and the
Argus. Parading beauty. Beautiful old buildings. Empires thatrequire protection. Issues of belonging and being allowed in.Prominent families. Inherited values. Castles and ramblingestates. Beautiful colors.
The Caution: Risking intergrity to display success. Strutting one's stuff. Inviting envy from others. Believing that one is all things to many people. Overloading others. Showing off and demanding acknowledgment. Trying to convince others of something. Noisy displays of wealth. Neglected buildings.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Taurus 30
It is neither wealth nor splendor,
but tranquility and occupationthat give happiness.Thomas Jefferson
He enjoys true leisure who has
time to improve his soul's estate.Henry David Thoreau
A peacock who sits on his tail is
just another turkey.
Proverb
It is not only fine feathers thatmake fine birds.Aesop
The sparrow is sorry for thepeacock at the burden of histail.
Rabindranath Tagore
The house of every one is tohim as his castle and fortress.
Edward Coke
Genius and virtue are to bemore often found clothed ingray than in peacock bright.
Van Wyck Brooks
As long as you're going to be
thinking anyway, think big.Donald J.Trump
A rich man is nothing but a
poor man with money.W. C. Fields
A heart in love with beauty never grows old.Turkish Proverb

3-1: A GLASS-BOTTOMED BOAT
REVEALS UNDERSEA WONDERS
Commentary: ‘A Glass-Bottomed Boat’ pictures a vessel thatenables people to see underwater. It ‘Reveals Undersea Wonders’;
we can observe the marvels of this “other world” through the lensof the glass, while remaining safe, dry and at a distance. Withoutthis particular type of “lens”, the ‘Glass’, it would be impossible to
see so much or so clearly. The ‘Wonders’ of a normally unobservedworld are brought into clearer focus. What is being observed issomething quite separate from the observer, and yet it feels soclose, almost like one could reach out and touch it.
Oracle: This Symbol implies that you can look at issues to do with
your situation from an uninvolved and yet observing, knowing,
perspective. This may be because the situation is separated, or
away, from your natural environment. Take some time out to calmly
observe what’s going on around you. Things previously unseen or
not understood will become evident. A distant, possibly uninvolved
position is probably much safer for you as you can observe from a
calm and detached perspective. As you have a special lens at your
disposal, like the ‘Glass-Bottomed Boat’, you will see much morethan you might at first think. Adopt an attitude of being able to seethrough superficial appearances to what is actually there and whatis really happening. You can get beneath the surface with a littleconcentration, and there can be incredible rewards if you focuson the task at hand. There are likely to be insights revealed that
you could only have imagined before. Things may be revealed in aclairvoyant or intuitive way, with images and thoughts streamingacross your mind. Imagine yourself with a new set of glasses orgoggles that enable you to see through the apparent surface of
things, down into the depths. Marvelous things can be ‘Revealed’with just a little effort, concentration and focus.
Keywords: Being able to see “within” to forms that are not
usually observed by others. Clairvoyance. Observance of psychicphenomena. Connecting with the collective unconscious. Spiritualgifts that enlarge ones perspective. Amusement and wonder atnatural beauty. Glass, lenses, refractions of light. Panoramic views.Water. Boats. Vehicles of discovery.
The Caution: Putting up barriers of social safety to avoidinvolvement in deep emotions. Overemphasis on safety concerns.Watching things from a distance, leading to separation and
estrangement. Looking in the wrong direction. Cool, detachedattitudes.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 1
There’s none so blind as theythat won't see.Jonathan Swift
“Truth is naturally universal,”
said Akananda, ‘and shinesinto many different windows,though some of them are
clouded.”Anya Seton
The eyes are the window to the
soul,
Traditional Proverb
Seeing is believing.Traditional Proverb
Meditation is the soul’sperspective glass.Owen Felltham
Nature is the glass reflectingGod, as by the sea reflected
is the sun, too glorious to be
gazed on in its sphere.Brigham Young
Our house is made of glass...and our lives are made of glass;and there is nothing we can do
to protect ourselves.Joyce Carol Oates
The world will never starve forwant of wonders; but only forwant of wonder.Gilbert Keith Chesterton

3-2: A NERVOUS GENTLEMAN, DRESSED IN AN ELABORATE SANTA CLAUS COSTUME, IS FILLING CHRISTMAS STOCKINGS SECRETLY
Commentary: ‘A Nervous Gentleman, Dressed in an ElaborateSanta Claus Costume, is Filling Christmas Stockings Secretly’.
‘Stockings’ are hung by the chimney in the hope of getting goodthings from ‘Santa Claus’, otherwise known as St. Nicholas. The
story of ‘Santa Claus’ and the ‘Christmas Stocking’ tells us that,out of compassion, Santa tossed three coins down the chimney of
the home of three poor sisters. Each coin fell neatly into each of
the ‘Stockings’ left drying by the hearth. We therefore leave our‘Stocking’ out in anticipation that a similar bit of good fortune willbefall us. He appears to be ‘Nervous’ and acting ‘Secretly’; sneaking
around. He wants to get his job done before the household wakesand he is discovered doing his rounds.
Oracle: Someone may be tiptoeing around, like ‘Santa Claus’ inan effort to give out gifts while no one is looking. Be gracious andlet those carrying the gifts have the pleasure of your reaction.
You may, however, draw this Symbol in a situation where you are
suspicious of someone being up to something. This Symbol may
be saying that your fears are possibly not only unfounded, but
can actually be quite wrong. You need to believe that somethinggood is happening, and trust those involved in this situation. Itmay be you who is trying to surprise someone with a gift. Perhaps
the giver in this situation is you? It is not necessarily the gift, but
more the thought that counts. What would happen if the lights
were suddenly turned on? Would things suddenly be known andrevealed that were not apparent or visible before?
Keywords: Wishes fulfilled. The longing for superficial gratification.Gifts being dispensed. Receiving from unknown sources. Giving forno particular reason or thought of reward for one’s self. Rewardscoming. Making surprise visits. Token gestures. Furtive acts.Charity. Philanthropy. Masturbation. Secret affairs. The need for
quick getaways.
The Caution: Hiding true gestures behind futile pretence.
Concealing true intentions with a facade of goodness. Trying toget away with something. Stealing, shoplifting. Intrusion. Givingothers what they want in a sly and secretive manner. Sneakingaround in the dark. Bribes. Self-gratification. Eavesdropping and
voyeurism. Being nervous or easily startled.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 2
The greatest pleasure I have known is to do good action bystealth, and to have it found outby accident.
Charles Lamb
I stopped believing in SantaClaus when I was six. Mother
took me to see himina
department store and he asked
for my autograph.Shirley Temple Black
I feel like the cat that ate the
canary some days.Bill Clinton
‘Twas the night before Christmas, when all throughthe house, not a creature wasstirring, not even a mouse. Thestockings were hung by the
chimney, in the hope that St.
Nicholas would soon be there.
Clement C. Moore
I never believed in Santa Claus
because I knew no white
dude would come into myneighborhood after dark.Dick Gregory
Santa Claus has the right idea:visit people once a year.
Victor Borge
I like to deliver more than I
promise instead of the other
way around. Which is just oneof my many trade secrets.Dorothy Uhnak

3-3: THE CHARMING COURT LIFE AT THE
GARDEN OF THE TUILERIES IN PARIS
Commentary: ‘The Charming Court Life at the Garden of theTuileries’ is a picture of elegance, riches and many of the things
that comprise the “good life”. ‘The Garden of the Tuileries’ washuge, magnificent, well manicured and was said to have had up to20,000 gardeners and servants working in the grounds. There wasmost likely barely a leaf out of place. People came together in thisopulence to discuss politics, to enjoy the rich ambiance and eachother. It must have been a ‘Charming Court Life’ indeed!
Oracle: This is a time to enjoy the rewards of beauty, order, self-confidence and authority that you and others have developedand achieved. There may be a need to remember, however, thatthis does not make you, or those in your situation, greater, better
or more deserving than others. The work you’ve done simply
entitles you to a little luxury. Over time it is possible to develop
your surroundings, both in possessions and spirit, to reflect the
experiences of your life. This Symbol asks you to enjoy what you
have achieved as it is a true expression of your self and thosearound you. Are you relaxed and comfortable enough to feel that
you can maintain it, enjoy it or, indeed, deserve it? Perhaps youneed the help of others to attain or maintain this lifestyle. The
‘Garden’ is not restricted only to those who create it with financial
wealth; it is available to all who share in its day-to-day life. Itis also beautiful if it reflects a sense of spiritual wealth. Do you
appreciate the health, wealth and beauty that surrounds you? Envy
and jealousy need to be put aside, as these can lead to emotionalalienation. Diplomacy, tact and skill will enable you to move moretowards the center of this ‘Charming Court Life’. Be grateful forall that you have, strive for the best and many wonderful things
can be yours.
Keywords: A love of form and tradition. Cultivation of beautiful
places. Symmetry of form being shown at its best. Gardens andgardeners. Garden ornaments. Statues. Having hired help to keepthings beautiful or under one’s control. Taking time to work inthe garden. Going first class. Being in the inner circle. Pots, plants.Wealth. Tradition. Affluence and influence. Big houses and rooms.Ample amenities.
The Caution: Behaving in an elitist fashion. Being bossy.Snobbishness that separates people from each other. Being spoiltand shallow. Having more than one truly needs. Treating peoplelike underlings or servants. Expecting others to do everything.Class-consciousness.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 3
Let us be grateful to people whomake us happy; they are the
charming gardeners who make
our souls blossom.Marcel Proust
To laugh often and much; towin the respect of intelligentpeople and the affection
of children; to earn theappreciation of honest criticsand endure the betrayal of falsefriends; to appreciate beauty; to
find the bestin others; to leavethe world a bit better, whetherby a healthy child,a gardenpatch or a redeemed socialcondition; to know even one life
has breathed easier because
you have lived. This is to have
succeeded.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Pleasure for one hour, a bottleof wine. Pleasure for one yeara marriage; but pleasure foralifetime, a garden.
Chinese Proverb
We must never confuseelegance with snobbery.Yves Saint Laurent
We are all born charming, fresh,and spontaneous and must
be civilized before we are fit toparticipate in society.Judith Martin

3-4: HOLLY AND MICTLETOE BRING CHRISTMAS SPIRIT TO A HOME
Commentary: 'Holly and Mistletoe Bring Christmas Spirit to a Home' is a wonderfully warm and inviting image. The ancient Deuids of Britain regarded 'Mistletoe' as sacred and believed it had both magical powers and medicinal properties. They referred to it as the "heal all, "although now we know the berries can be poisonous, so care needs to be taken with them. "Kissing beneath the Mistletoe" is a tradition that has developed over the years as we have build barriers to more spontaneous expressions of affection. It is almost as though the 'Mistletoe' and the 'Spirit of Christmas' have become an excuse for us to be able to show our feelings. We have developed these types of rituals to compensate for what has truly been lost. 'Mistletoe' was so sacred to the Druids that if two enemies met beneath a tree on which 'Mistletoe' was growing, they would lay down their weapons, exchange greetings and observe a 24-hour truce.
Oracle: ‘Christmas’ represents a time when we can reconnectwith loved ones, family, or, in a larger sense, humanity, to discoverthe strengths and joys in the cultural and religious bonds that holdfamilies and people together. However, we don’t have to wait until
a special celebration such as ‘Christmas’ to feel close to friends
and family. The openness that the ‘Holly and Mistletoe’ representsshould be carried in our hearts always and not restricted merely
to a few days of the year. Realizing how important those near anddear to us really are, we should put in the effort to reach out to
others at any time. It is not just about acknowledging these bonds,but also affectionately embracing them. ‘Mistletoe’ is said torepresent regeneration and the restoration of family life. Perhapsit is time to bring that ‘Spirit’ of peace and reconciliation into thehome and the family, regardless of the time or the season.
Keywords: Social celebrations of the spirit. Returning to basic
joys. Remembering past celebrations of family and social cohesion.
Kissing under the mistletoe. Simple gestures that remind us oflarger realities. Warmth, joy and anticipation. The Festive Season.The spirit of special occasions.
The Caution: The use of superficial tricks. Performances to achieve the appearance of happiness or familial ties. Neglecting family. Excluding others because of religious beliefs. Rituals that have no depth or true meaning. Loneliness. Not being in the spirit of things. Having too much to do. The Silly Season. Scrooge mentalities that don't want to know about family and celebrations.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 4
I saw mummy kissing Santa
Claus underneath the mistletoelast night.
Tommie Connor
The mistletoe hung in the castlehall, the holly-branch shone on
the old oak wall.
Thomas Haynes Bayly
The holly and the ivyAre plants that are well knownOf all that grow in the woods
The holly bears the crown.Anon
Love is like the wild rose-briar;
Friendship like the holly-tree.
The holly is dark when the rosebriar blooms, But which willbloom most constantly?
Emily Bronte
A good conscience is acontinual Christmas.
Benjamin Franklin
At Christmas play and makegood cheer,
For Christmas comes but oncea year.Thomas Tusser
Heap on the wood!The wind is chill;But let it whistle as it will,We'll keep our Christmas merrystill.Sir Walter Scott

3-5: A RADICAL MAGAZINE OR
PUBLICATION, ASKING FOR ACTION,
DISPLAYS A SENSATIONAL FRONT PAGE
Commentary: ‘A Radical Magazine or Publication’ is shown. Itis ‘Asking For Action’ and ‘Displays a Sensational Front Page’.Sometimes, in order to be taken seriously or be noticed, people
need to do or say something rousing, radical or out of the ordinaryespecially when there is a need, or a desire, to change things. Thereare probably some strong feelings that ‘Action’ needs to be taken- bear in mind, however, that the status quo can be very hard toawaken, change or shift. As this is a ‘Radical Magazine’ it can lead tomoves that are disruptive or even threatening to stability or securityin some measure. Further, the ‘Action’ that is being called for canlead to less than desirable outcomes. Events that unfold can be highlycharged emotionally.
Oracle: You may be motivated for change, and getting the attentionof those around you may require radical and even abrasive action.
This Symbol can equally be seen from the opposite view; perhaps youare having difficulty with someone who is being noisy, disruptive,demanding or looking to cause change. Whichever, the issue is mostlikely overblown and exaggerated in some way. There may be a lotof dramatic ‘Action’ and overreaction to what is said or done. Thingsmay currently seem threatening, but are probably just reflectionsof moments in time and likely to pass before long. Someone maymeet his or her match vocally. Attention seeking devices, such asthe ‘Sensational Front Page’ should be used very carefully and neveragainst anyone. Once everyone is paying attention there may need tobe an effort to publicize a more reasonable perspective. Sometimeswe overuse terms like “you never” and “that’s the last time I ever...”It is important to get past the exaggerated ‘Sensational’ words andlook at why such large statements are thought necessary in the first
place.
Keywords: Speaking one’s mind. Messages and news that awakes orshocks. The need for reform. Challenging outlooks. Breaking out ofconstraints. The media. Issues of propaganda. Headlines that promisemore than they deliver. Revolutions. Social or emotional causes.Conspiracy theories. Printing presses. Publishing. Publicity. Gainingattention. Speaking one’s truth without fear of consequences.
The Caution: Being argumentative. Arousing others for selfishreasons. Distortions of the truth. Misinformation and disinformation.Getting the whole picture wrong. Exploitation of situations.Overstating messages. Biased information. Old and outworn news.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 5
Controversy equalizes fools andwise men and the fools know it.Oliver Wendell Holmes
There is nothing more wonderfulthan freedom of speech.Ilya G. Ehrenburg
It is easy to believe in freedom
of speech for those with whomwe agree.Leo McKern
My sources are unreliable, but
their information is fascinating.Ashleigh Brilliant
Freedom of opinion can onlyexist when the government
thinks itself secure.Bertrand Russell
The sports page records
people's accomplishments;
the front page usually records
nothing but man’s failures.Earl Warren
All the news that’s fit to print.Motto of the New York Timesfrom 1896
But words are things, Andasmall drop of ink, Falling like
dew, Upon a thought, Produces
That which makes thousands,Perhaps millions, think.George Gordon Byron
The power of the press is verygreat, but not so great as thepower of suppress.Lord Northcliffe

3-6: WORKMEN DRILLING FOR OIL
Commentary: ‘Workmen Drilling For Oil’ is a Symbol of peopleworking, endeavoring to find some treasure. Often this treasure,the ‘Oil’, is buried deep and there must be significant effort madeto bring it to the surface. Searching deeply into the depths oftencarries a certain amount of risk, and the ‘Workmen’ need to havean incentive for doing the task. ‘Drilling for Oil” also shows adesire to get to the depths, or the bottom, of an issue, or to findthe rewards that exist deep within something.
Oracle: The situation facing you will probably need hard work,concentration and commitment. The rewards you are seeking may
be hidden way beneath the surface. The answers you want are
often held within yourself, or others, and it can be just a simplematter of having, and keeping, faith in the search. You may needto explore your inner self for answers. Acting in cooperation with
those who have the skills to assist you in such an explorationcan bring things to the surface that you didn’t even know werethere. As true rewards are at times both difficult to find andunsuccessful, it is through employing continual perseverance andshying away from feelings of futility that you will find success.
You may need to get used to operating in the dark or actingwithout a clear view of outcomes. Exposing yourself to risks
is often necessary in order to gain rewards or wealth. You willneed to stick with the task, whilst keeping an eye on what thereal objective is. Trust your intuition and follow your heartfeltendeavors. Even if you don’t actually strike ‘Oil’, there can stillbe much learnt during the exploration. Consider the value or therisk in ‘Drilling’ for this potential reward. Keep a positive attitude;perseverance and hard work will pay off in some measure.
Keywords: Pursuit of material or spiritual wealth. Ambition.The drive to plumb the depths. Trying to get to the bottomof things. Opportunistic attitudes. Making a fortune throughother’s resources. Psychoanalysis and psychotherapy. Dream
analysis. Explorations, past life or present. Dependence onwealth. Research. Exploring answers. Oil and oil wells. Drillsand equipment. Searching for a reward.
The Caution: Putting a great deal of effort into risky activitiesfor uncertain returns. Unceasing work. Hoping to just “strike itrich”. Neglecting friends and loved ones. Focusing too deeply ona goal. Being opportunistic and looking for the “lucky strike”.Relying on others to come up with the goods. Gold diggers andopportunists. Exploiting resources. Depression. Digging intopeople's private matters.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 6
In deep meditation the flow ofconcentration is continuous—like the flow of oil.Patanjali
Few things are impossible todiligence and skill. Great works
are performed, not by strength,but perseverance.Samuel Johnson
Rockefeller once explained the
secret of success. ‘Get up early,
work late—and strike oil.’Joey Adams
The weak shall inherit the earth,
but not the mineral rights.
J. Paul Getty
Of course we all have out limits,
but how can you possibly findyour boundaries unless youexplore as far and as wide asyou possibly can?! would ratherfailin an attempt at somethingnew and uncharted than
safely succeed in a repeat of
something I have done.A. E. Hotchner
It is while you are patientlytoiling at the little tasks of life
that the meaning and shape of
the great whole of life dawnson you.Phillips Brooks
Life leaps like a geyser for those
who drill through the rock ofinertia.Alexis Carrel

3-7: AN OLD-FASHIONED WELL WITH
THE PUREST AND COLDEST OF
WATERS
Commentary: ‘An Old-Fashioned Well With The Purest andColdest of Waters’ pictures a reliable, sustainable and refreshingsupply of the essence of all life—’ Water’, Over the years, the ‘Water’from the ‘Well’ has been available to all who came to draw on it.This ‘Well’ can supply ‘Water’ to a single person, a small family,or a big community. ‘Wells’ symbolize sources of nourishment,the quenching of thirst, and can also show inner wisdom, andthe depth of people, emotionally and spiritually. The people of
old saw ‘Wells’ as gateways to the spirit world where the veils
between human existence and the greater spirit became thinner,and communications could take place with the gods and goddessesof the nature religions. That this ‘Old Well’ has ‘The Purest andColdest of Waters’ shows that wisdom and nourishment has notdiminished over time. There is always a plentiful supply for those
who draw on the ‘Well’ with the right attitude and with sincerity.
Oracle: You are able to access the ‘Well’ through faith and self-confidence and the ability to respond to others on all levels,particularly emotionally. In order to partake of the benefits of the‘Well’, you will need to make the effort to draw the ‘Water’ up fromthe ‘Well’. There should be nothing to stop you. You probably don’t
need to employ your thoughts as much as your beliefs, compassion
and love. You may, however, need a long rope and patience to reachinto the depths. Imagine yourself with a big strong bucket that is
being filled with what you need. The greatest barrier to partakingof these ‘Waters’ is to disregard the value of the ‘Well’ because it is‘Old’ or because it is not “on tap”. Feeling like you can tap into the
essence of a person, a situation or some knowledge can be verynourishing, rewarding and illuminating.
Keywords: Being nourished and satisfied. Feeling supported by
the environment. Clarity of thought and perception. Drawing on
deep resources. Links to the past. Deep and sustaining. Things you
can rely upon. The pool of universal experience. Oasis. Believing
in others. Ensuring water supplies. Cool, refreshing water. Plentyfor everybody.
The Caution: Not trusting advice based on established ideas. Being
blind to the sincerity and depth of others. Judging by appearances.Not recognizing inner values. Droughts, emotional and literal. The
well drying up, leaving nothing to nourish. Muddying of issues thatmake them difficult or impossible to tap. Stagnant water. Poisons.Moulds.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 7
Few men during theirlifetime come anywhere nearexhausting the resourcesdwelling within them. There aredeep wells of strength that arenever used.
Richard E. Byrd
We never know the worth ofwater till the well is dry.English Proverb
I worked for a menial’s hire,Only to learn, dismayed, Thatany wage I had asked of Life,Life would have gladly paid.
Jessie Rittenhouse
How many times has the wateryou're drinking been drunk
before?Anon
American society is a sort offlat, fresh-water pond whichabsorbs silently, withoutreaction, anything which isthrown into it.Henry Brooks Adams
And Noah he often said to his
wife when he sat down to dine,
‘I don’t care where the watergoes if it doesn’t get into thewine’G. K. Chesterton
I believe in getting into hotwater.I think it keeps you clean.G.K, Chesterton

3-8: AROUSED STRIKERS SURROUND A FACTORY
Commentary: 'Aroused Strikers Surround a Factory', they are obviously unhappy with their work, their pay or their conditions, and they are now on 'Strike'. In some measure, they are not putting up with what they're receiving for their efforts. For the moment, the disagreement has stopped anyone from benefiting from anything at all as events have come to a standstill. This Symbol pictures a dramatic type of power struggle or disagreement over how something of value is to be shared. It may be about work conditions, or the distribution of wealth that results from the work they are expected to do. What is their incentive for putting in the effort? The 'Strikers' may be calm, but all hell could break loose, turning into a full-blown demonstration with placards, yelling and violence.
Oracle: What is really needed is a discussion of the need for one’s
rights to be heard and hopefully worked out. There is an obviousimbalance of power and it is time to consider what negotiationscan be made. It may be difficult to find creative solutions, butthat is probably what is important now. If you are in a situation
where you have to stand up for your rights, or entitlements, or for
those of a group, you will probably need the support of others.
This could be your co-workers, friends or family. Try to enlist thehelp of those who feel the same as you, but at the same time takecare to be sure that the cause is justified. There is an element ofimbalance and emotion here. Is what’s being said really being heardby those who need to hear? Are the ‘Strikers’ asking too much?Justice can only come through negotiation, mutual considerationand a fair sharing of rewards. Once this is accomplished, everyonecan come back together, working towards common goals in a moresatisfying atmosphere.
Keywords: Bargaining to find more equitable solutions. Demandingbetter rights and conditions. Comradeship. Disruption of thenormal flow. Not wanting to contribute or work. Taking time out
to consider one’s position. Taking action or refusing to act. Laborstrikes and strikers. Demonstrations. Peace rallies. Standing upfor others. Scab labor. Sweat shops. Slave labor. Strikes. Bosses.Workers. Placard waving.
The Caution: Being obsessed with what is desired. Refusing anycompromises. Going without one’s due in order to protest. Beinglocked out because of one’s actions or attitude. Being left out inthe street. Greedy behavior. Asking for more than one’s share.Overworked and underpaid. Shutting down.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 8
If you want creative workers,give them enough time to play.John Cleese
I have long been of theopinion that if work weresuch a splendid thing the rich
would have kept more of it for
themselves.Bruce Grocott
Man’s biggest mistake is to
believe that he’s working forsomeone else.
Nashua Cavalier
Human beings are so madethat the ones who do thecrushing feel nothing; it is theperson crushed who feels whatis happening. Unless one has
placed oneself on the side of the
oppressed, to feel with them,
one cannot understand.Simone Weil
Strike while the iron is hot.
Traditional Proverb
It is from numberless diverseacts of courage and belief that
human history is shaped. Eachtime a man stands up for an
ideal, or acts to improve the lot
of others, or strikes out againstinjustice, he sends forth a tinyripple of hope.Robert F. Kennedy

3-9: A MEDIEVAL ARCHER STANDS WITH
THE EASE OF ONE WHOLLY SURE
OF HIMSELF, BOW IN HAND, HIS
QUIVER FILLED WITH ARROWS
Commentary: The ‘Archer’ has ‘His Quiver Filled With Arrows’.
He is someone who is ‘Wholly Sure of Himself’, and he has his‘Bow in Hand’. The ‘Medieval Archer’ was used in great numbersin open battles in England. They could fire as many as fifteen‘Arrows’ a minute. As the ‘Archer’s Quiver’ is ‘Filled with Arrows’,it seems he may not have drawn ‘His Arrows’ yet. There may
be no immediate threat as the ‘Archer’ stands with only ‘HisBow in Hand’. By being alert, having the ammunition he needscan assist him to be true to himself, and with vigilance, he canremain ‘Wholly Sure of Himself’.
Oracle: Your situation requires skill, courage, a true senseof confidence and the knowledge to get right to the heart ofthe matter facing you. You may need to examine just how
prepared you are for a surprise situation. If you have some form
of test coming up, are you armed with the knowledge and theammunition you need? Can you face life with calm and a quiet
assurance of the soundness of your position? Be careful not torush into something unprepared. It is not enough to just hope forthe best. This will only leave you feeling inadequate if you findyourself unable to cope. If you are on “the hunt” for something,are you prepared for the prize? Don’t be distracted or led awayfrom what needs to be done. Stay focused, armed and ready togo for the objective when it presents itself. Make a strategy, andhit the target. If you get stressed or confused, take a moment tocompose yourself and remember that you have the ammunitionof knowledge and the marksmanship that confidence andassurance provide. Using the symbol of an ‘Arrow’, or a target,in some way can lead to surprising results.
Keywords: Being armed and ready. Having the aim andammunition. Accuracy and strength. Getting to the point. The
power of tension. Sending a message true and clear. Skills that
create confidence and assurance. Focus. Bulls-eyes. Bows andarrows. Warriors. The determination to prevail.
The Caution: Going into battle unprepared. Overconfidencein one’s mission. Being trigger-happy. Someone “cocksure” ofthemselves. Threatening postures of attack or defense. Alwaysbeing on the alert for any opportunity to fight. The thug.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 9
If you would hit the mark,you must aim alittle above it;every arrow that flies feels theattraction of earth.Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
Practice makes perfect.Old Saying
You will soon break the bow ifyou keep it always stretched.Phaedrus
None learned the art of archery
from me who did not make me,in the end, the target.Saadi of Shiraz
Talking without thinking is like
shooting without taking aim.Proverb
Next in importance to having agood aim is to recognize whento pull the trigger.Elmer G. Letterman
An arrow shot upright falls onthe shooter’s head.
Romanian Proverb
If you shoot your arrows atstones, you will damage them.Austrian Proverb
Do not throw the arrow whichwill return against you.Kurdish Proverb
They couldn't hit an elephant atthis distance.
General John Sedgwick

3-10: AN AIRPLANE DIVES TOWARD THE
EARTH AS THOUGH FALLING
Commentary: ‘An Airplane Dives Toward the Earth as ThoughFalling’ pictures risks, daring and going against the odds. The nose
‘Dive’ may look exciting, but things could really be heading fordisaster. Onlookers may be unsure of what’s really going on. Isthe pilot of this ‘Airplane’ just playing around by defying gravityor is he really in a life-threatening situation? If the one in control,
the pilot, makes the slightest error of judgment, there could bea terrible outcome, with the ‘Airplane’ crashing and burning. Atthe right moment someone, whether it is the pilot, or someoneelse who can take command, needs to pull out of the ‘Dive’ and
save the day. Everything will be fine, possibly exciting and evenexhilarating, as long as everything is truly under control.
Oracle: Are things really going the way they should? Risk takingmay pay offin a big way and may well be worth it, however, it may
end up ina self-defeating crash-and-burn situation. Are you, or issomeone else, actively working against their own best interests?Those around you may begin to panic; it may be necessary toreassure them that everything is going to be OK. Let go ofthings that aren’t really necessary-you can’t deal with too manythings right now. It is important to try and keep distractions to aminimum, concentrating on this situation only, and rely solely on
those you can trust. A sense of equilibrium needs to be reachedor regained. Grabbing hold of the situation and facing it withcomposure and confidence can straighten things up. Imagine
yourself pulling out of a “nosedive” or repeat an affirmation of
rising up and pulling through. This is certainly a time whencourage is needed, but keep an eye on what’s developing, as
everyone may need to bail out to safety. Having a safety device,such as a parachute or a safe landing-pad, may be necessary. Thelast thing you want to do is to crash and burn.
Keywords: Plunging into situations without considering the ramifications. Becoming conscious of what's happening. Being protected (and saved) at the last moment. Defying gravity. Facing consequences. Dangerous displays. Hitting the ground running. The art of smooth sailing. Daredevil stunts.
The Caution: Refusing to help yourself even when disaster is immincent. Free fails and defying the consequences. Shakeups. Things getting completely out of onctrol. Overshooting the mark by aiming too high. Turbulence. Reckless behavior. Neglect of physical realities. Freaking out at crucial moments.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 10
Life changed after that jump... ld suddenly stepped to thehighest level of daring, a levelabove even that which airplane
pilots could attain.Charles A. Lindbergh
Later,| realized that the mission
had to end ina letdown
because the real barrier wasn’tin the sky but in our knowledgeand experience of supersonicflight.
Chuck Yeager
Lovers of air travel find itexhilarating to hang poisedbetween the illusion ofimmortality and the fact ofdeath.
Alexander Chase
More people are killed everyyear from donkeys than fromairplane crashes.
Trivia.net
A stumble may prevent a fall.English Proverb
The airplane stays up becauseit doesn't have the time to fall.
Orville Wright
Nothing is more desirable thanto be released from affliction,but nothing is more frighteningthan to be divested of a crutch.James Baldwin

3-11: NEWLY OPENED LANDS OFFER THE
PIONEER NEW OPPORTUNITIES FOR
EXPERIENCE
Commentary: The ‘Pioneer’ in ‘Newly Opened Lands’ showssomeone who is ready to break away from old familiar groundand move into unknown and more exciting territory. This new
sphere, these ‘Newly Opened Lands of New Opportunity’ are
open to ‘The Pioneer’, someone who is prepared to venture intothe unknown for the benefits that may be there. It is the ‘NewOpportunities For Experience’ that this Symbol is promising,
a chance to explore the unexplored. Fear is often the greatest
barrier to moving forward, but any fears must be put aside or faced
and the familiar must be left behind for these new possibilitiesto occur.
Oracle: This situation is one that will fulfill its potential if you goforward, leaving the past and what’s familiar behind, to seek outpotential new ‘Experiences’. Although it can take some time toadjust to a new place or space, different customs or unfamiliarconditions, striking out for what’s possible can be rewarding inthe long run. However, if someone is merely trying to manipulatethe world to give them exactly what they want, or are just moving
on in order to get more control, they may be sadly disappointed.
Don’t rush or expect too much but also don’t accept too little from
these ‘Newly Opened Lands’. There may be some experiences
that come your way that seem difficult, hard work or just plainundesirable, but that is often the result of venturing into newand unfamiliar environments. There may be a need to start lifeall over again in this new ‘Newly Opened Land’. You could bestarting from scratch. Be open to whatever comes your way. Takethe time you need to adjust to this ‘New Opportunity’ and enjoy
the experience!
Keywords: Pioneering attitudes bringing rewards. Going off thebeaten track. Coming up with new ideas. New spiritual realizations
opening up vistas of hope and experiences. Opportunities to
move on to new realms. Adjusting to new places. The Promised
Lands. Being prepared to take risks. Moving out. New time zones.Foreign customs and languages.
The Caution: Clinging to the old and familiar when it is outworn and boring. Restricting growth and change. Not moving on. Invading other people's space. Claiming what's rightfully someone else's. Hanging on when it's time to let go. Running off to avoid involvement or responsibilities.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 11
Explore thyself. Herein aredemanded the eye and thenerve.Henry David Thoreau
Explorers have to be ready todie lost.
Russell Hoban
Civilization no longer needs toopen up wilderness; it needswilderness to open up the stilllargely unexplored human
mind.David Rains Wallace
In my writing am acting asa mapmaker, an explorer of
psychic areas..a cosmonautof inner space, and | see nopoint in exploring areas thathave already been thoroughly
surveyed.William S. Burroughs
Take a chance! All life is achance.The man who goes
farthest is generally the one
who is willing to do and dare.
Dale Carnegie
The Promised Land guaranteesnothing. It is only anopportunity, not a deliverance.Shelby Steele
In wisdom gathered overtime | have found that everyexperience is a form ofexploration.Ansel Adams

3-12: A BLACK SLAVE-GIRL DEMANDS HER RIGHTS OF HER MISTRESS
Commentary: The 'Black Slave-Girl' who 'Demands Her Rights of Her Mistress' is someone who want to be taken seriously. She is tired of beng treated like a 'Slave' or dutiful underling. Like everyone else, she has 'Rights' and she 'Demands
her needs to be heard in order to improve her living conditions or situation. This can be difficult for the 'Mistress' because it is not uncommon for those in dominant positions to fail to understand that everyone is entitled to their own freedoms. The 'Mistress' may have assumed that everything was fine, as everything was okay at her end. Indeed. the 'Slave-Girl' may not have realized that her position was something that needed changing or that she needed libration from, until just recently.
Oracle: Ifyou are ina situation where you are spoken to badly, or
treated with less respect than you deserve, make a stand - don't
just put up with it. It’s time to break the pattern and move ahead
with self-respect and self-determination. This will encourage
others to show respect and acknowledge that you should betaken seriously. You can take responsibility for your own life andhow it is lived. Whether you are the ‘Slave-Girl' or the ‘Mistress’,it is important now to allow some changes or adjustments to theusual order and the established distribution of power. Nothingstays the same in a world of such broad experiences. It is how wereact to others that measures our humanity. Parents can fall intothis 'Slave' trap and children sometimes need to show maturity
by having sympathy for the dilemma their parents face in their
own lives. State what you want clearly and simply and see howyour situation improves. Keeping quiet can lead to illness anddisgruntlement that simmers until it explodes. Whatever side ofthis situation you find yourself, it’s better to act now.
Keywords: Rising above conditioning and limitations. Standing up
for one’s self. Demanding better treatment. Seeking recognitionand self-respect. Being in charge of one’s life. Breaking away
from oppression. Wanting a raise in pay or conditions. The needfor freedom. Desiring property and rewards. Rising up from an“underdog” position or situation. The quest for identity.
The Caution: Feeling hard done by. Being demanding. Blamingothers. Bucking authority. Demanding to be recognized ornoticed. Feeling used and abused. Oppression and slavery.Jealousy and envy. Exploitation.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 12
Freedom — to walk free and ownno superior.Walt Whitman
Freedom is the emancipationfrom the arbitrary rule of other
men,Mortimer Adler
Emancipate yourselves from
mental slavery. None but
ourselves can free our minds.Bob Marley
Bit by bit... she had claimed
herself. Freeing yourself was one
thing; claiming ownership ofthat freed self was another.
Toni Morrison
No man is good enough togovern another man without
that other’s consent.
Abraham Lincoln
We need to find the courage to
say NO to the things and peoplethat are not serving us if wewant to rediscover ourselves andlive our lives with authenticity.
Barbara De Angelis
To sin by silence when theyshould protest makes cowardsof men.
Abraham Lincoln
The limits of tyrants are
prescribed by the enduranceof those whom they oppose.Frederick Douglass

3-13: A WORLD FAMOUS PIANIST GIVING
A CONCERT PERFORMANCE
Commentary: ‘A World Famous Pianist’ is someone who, through
years of rigorous practice, has learnt their craft and knows how to
show it so it can be shared, enjoyed and experienced by others.
In this Symbol, the ‘Pianist’ is ‘World Famous’ and others come to
watch the ‘Concert Performance’. Perhaps he or she is performing
in some distant place or foreign land. The audience has come
to enjoy the melodies, emotions and dramas that are brought to
their ears, minds and hearts. They come to see the person who
embodies this talent. The ‘Pianist’ has the ability to concentrate
on the flow of the music and the actions of the body whilst being
attentive to the audience. Rewards always come to those who are
well rehearsed and prepared to share their talent.
Oracle: This Symbol shows the need to lay one’s talent on the line,
often in front of others, without fear of ridicule or rejection. It is
not enough for someone talented to know how wonderful they
are, the proof is in the expression of their skills in the real world,creating something as a result. It is important to remember that
this ‘Performance’ should spring from a love of what one is doing,whether it is music, performing, or some other type of artistic
or creative expression. However, it may be that the enjoyment
and passion has become overshadowed by the responsibility anddifficulty of having to maintain high standards. It can be difficultto persist in practicing a learned talent if it is not a keen interest
or passion. In order to revive these feelings it may help to presentyour skills, expertise and talent to others, or to the public. Know
your audience and communicate with them. Show that you are
skilled and practiced and you will earn the praise, attention andrespect of others.
Keywords: Talent. Validations of social standing. Working hardat being special (or noticed). Reverence, respect and patronageof the arts. Feeling attracted to those with creative ability.
Music, whether inspiring or tiring. Hands-on creativity. Feelingempowered by ability. Success. Practice makes perfect. Singing.Playing out front or in the band. Having an adoring public.Repertoires. Concerts.
The Caution: Relying on past success. Not putting in the day-to-day practice. The need for applause and acclaim to validate onesexistence. Inflated egos demanding attention. Smugness aboutbeing talented, cultured, wealthy or privileged. Prima donnas.Cultural rewards for the privileged few. Conceit. Nerves that can
ruin performance.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 13
The only thing that separatessuccessful people from the ones
who aren't is the willingness to
work very, very hard.Helen Gurley Brown
The deepest principle in humannature is the craving to beappreciated.William James
An acre of performance is worth
a whole world of promise.William Dean Howells
Never promise more than youcan perform.
Publilius Syrus
With man-made talent youhave to work very hard. WithGod-given talent, you just touchit up once in a while.Pearl Bailey
There are two kinds of talents,
man-made talent and God-given talent. The piano isthe social instrument parexcellence...drawing-room
furniture, a sign of bourgeoisprosperity, the most massive ofthe devices by which the youngare tortured in the name ofeducation and the grown-up
in the name of entertainment.Jacques Barzun
Please do not shoot the pianist.He is doing his best.
Oscar Wilde

3-14: TWO PEOPLE, AT WIDELY DIFFERENT POINTS, ARE IN CONVERSATION WITH EACH OTHER BY MEANS OF TELEPATHY
Commentary: The ‘Two People’ are far apart - they are at “WidelyDifferent Points’. This can show that they are far apart in distance
from each other, but it can also be that they live in very separateworlds or have very different viewpoints on life. Whatever, theyare ‘In Conversation With Each Other By Means of Telepathy’. This
Symbol embodies the idea that we are never really separate fromthose with whom we truly belong, as long as we keep them in our
minds and our hearts. It is not always necessary to be physically
face-to-face with others to communicate in some manner.
Oracle: This Symbol shows that lines of communication can still be
established if you can’t be near a friend or loved one. It seems that
you have bonds with another, perhaps with many people, that areunaffected by distance or frequency of communications or visits.When you are unable to be together, it is possible for you to remainconnected through sending messages from your mind and heart. Youcould also be feeling as though you are receiving messages from orabout them, but are afraid to pay attention to them. If you have been
receiving clairvoyant flashes or premonitions, don’t block them, as itis
highly likely that they are trying to tell you something worth listening
to. Society often frowns on things concerning psychic matters; butdon’t allow yourself to submit to other people’s disapproval andopinions. Trust your intuition, both in the sending and receiving ofmessages. You may feel isolated or unable to physically bridge the
gap between yourself and someone special. Try to set aside a time
of the day or night when you can meditate on each other. Let your
heart tell you that you are always in their company and there is no
need to feel alone.
Keywords: Conquering space and time limitations. Psychic andmental communication. Sharing and thinking the same ideas.Knowing what is felt or thought by others. Feeling connectedregardless of physical contact. Being on the same frequency.Mediumship. Telepathic communication. Conversation. Direct linesof communication. Mind reading.
The Caution: Blocking out sensitive awareness for the sake of socialneeds or expectations. Mind and thought control. Manipulating bysubtle means. Losing contact. Not getting the message. Not seeing
eye-to-eye. Barging into other people’s space.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 14
I think we dream so we don't
have to be apart so long. If we'rein each other's dreams, we canbe together all the time.Hobbes
Absence makes the heart growfonder.Proverb
Absence sharpens love,
presence strengthens it.
Romanian Proverb
Separation secures manifestfriendship.Indian Proverb
Distance lends enchantment tothe view.Thomas Campbell
! waited and waited, and, whenno message came, | knew itmust be from you.
Ashleigh Brilliant
Love does not consist in gazing
at each other, butin lookingtogether in the same direction.Antoine De Saint-Exupery
To the query, “What is afriend?” his reply was “A singlesoul dwelling in two bodies.”Aristotle
Great minds think alike.Traditional Proverb

3-15: TWO DUTCH CHILDREN TALKING
AND STUDYING THEIR LESSONS
TOGETHER
Commentary: ‘Two Dutch Children Talking and Studying TheirLessons Together’ shows the need for clarity and for those of
like mind to share and communicate spontaneous and creativeideas. The “Two Dutch Children’ are discussing and sharing their
thoughts, ideas and feelings about ‘Their Lessons’. Every now andthen they are likely to bring up side issues about their personallives and to chatter about friends, etc. It may be that they are
meant to be only ‘Studying Their Lessons’, however they probably
have the freedom to be able to relax and take things easily. The
people around them probably won't be interested in what they
are ‘Studying’, although they may sometimes pretend to be. Some
may feel left out because the level of conversation or the ways
of communicating are so carefree, in-depth or inaccessible to
others’ minds.
Oracle: This Symbol shows people enjoying each other andsharing common goals. When a lot of the confusion of the day-to-day life is put aside, there can be an understanding of eachother or those around you that is so strong it can feel like a soulconnection. As these are said to be ‘Dutch Children’, feeling cutoff and isolated because of language or cultural separations canbe frustrating, but if you have companionship with someone on
your wavelength, it is much easier to bear. You should be able to
relax and feel comfortable with your associates. Try not to look
for or create any unnecessary complications. Get on with your
job quietly and effectively with company that seeks the samethings in life. Getting a grip on life’s ‘Lessons’ will enlightenand enrich everyone in this situation. Finding a friend to learnand be creative with could lead to some valuable lessons aboutfriendships, relating and the world.
Keywords: Sharing of innocence and carefree thoughts and ideals. Exchanging views with like-minded individuals. Simplicity. Sense of companionship. Communication. Best friends. Having the right teacher. Learning and studying. Conversations that illuminate issues. Speaking many languages. Gossiping.
The Caution: Failing to communicate in depth. Unsophisticated view points. Excluding others as "unworthy". Societal or racial prejudice. "Hearing voices" that don't make sense. Not hearing the opinions of others to further understand how the world works. Foreign languages that exclude others.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 15
The language of friendship isnot words but meanings.Henry David Thoreau
Friendship is a single souldwelling in two bodies.
Aristotle
A friend is a present you give toyourself.Robert Louis Stevenson
The pleasure of reading isdoubled when one lives with
another who shares the samebooks.Katherine Mansfield
Whenever two good peopleargue over principles, both arealways right.
Marie von Ebner-Eschenbach
A different language is adifferent version of life.
Federico Fellini
| had no idea what |wanted todo with my life, so nothing ofwhat |was studying seemed
to fit. know now that | should
have taken advantage of thattime and that | missed a greatdeal of the opportunity toeducate myself.
Harrison Ford
In studying the way, realizing itis hard; once you have realizedit, preserving it is hard. Whenyou can preserve it, putting itinto practice is hard.Zen Proverb

3-16: A WOMAN ACTIVIST ON A
PLATFORM IN AN EMOTIONAL
SPEECH DRAMATIZING HER CAUSE
Commentary: ‘A Woman Activist’ is ‘On a Platform DramatizingHer Cause’. There is a ‘Platform’, that she is standing on and amessage that she wants others to hear and understand. Althoughshe stands up for what she feels, she may strike resistance. Shemay feel misunderstood and disadvantaged simply because of hergender, status or experience. This may be due to the ignoranceof others but she must press her case or the status quo willremain.
Oracle: There’s something that must be said or announced. If thecause is worthy or timely and your communications are clear, youwill be heard by those who resonate with your message and yourinfluence will spread. Think things through before speaking andthe message will be a whole lot clearer. If emotions or energiesget out of control it can lead to hysterics and tantrums. People are
likely to switch off in some way. Similarly, when someone is saying
something somewhat confronting it is likely to arouse people’semotions, or it can literally get their physical bodies responding
- by moving about and fidgeting. What’s being expressed maybe too emotional and dramatic for some, but this may be whatis necessary to shift stubbornness or to wake people up. This
situation is quite possibly about inequality and the efforts thatwill need to be taken to find a fairer outcome, sometimes formany people. Who is listening and who is not? Are those who arenot listening creating frustration? Is this causing a disturbance?Everyone making an effort to listen and show kindness andpatience may solve any problems.
Keywords: Stating one’s case. Revealing social passions. Being amouthpiece for the emotions of the collective. The desire to beheard. Having a platform or stage. The need for rational emotionalpoints to be made. Being the “underdog”. Many things runningthrough the mind. The battle between the masculine and thefeminine. Taking it to the streets. Announcements. Fighting for
a cause. Having to shoulder too many things.
The Caution: Pressing opinions on the unwilling anddisinterested. Feeling that no one listens or cares. Rational orpolitical structures overriding one’s life. Going over the toptrying to get a message across. Feeling like the “woman”whois never listened to. Controlling the agenda. Hormonal swings.
Male chauvinism blocking female progress. Justifying ones self.
Silly ideas.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 16
All progress has resulted frompeople who took unpopularpositions.Adlai Stevenson
A free society is a place where
it’s safe to be unpopular.Adlai Stevenson
It is always brave to say whateveryone thinks.Georges Duhamel
To sin by silence when theyshould protest makes cowardsof men.Abraham Lincoln
The last struggle for our rights,the battle for our civilization is
entirely with ourselves.William Wells Brown
Violence in the voice is oftenonly the death rattle of reason
in the throat.John F. Boyes
Cautious, careful people, always
casting about to preserve theirreputations ...can never affecta reform.Susan B. Anthony
A sufficient measure ofcivilization is the influence ofgood women.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Revolution is not a dinner party.Maotse-Tung

3-17: THE HEAD OF A ROBUST YOUTH
CHANGES INTO THAT OF A MATURE
THINKER
Commentary: ‘The Head of a Robust Youth Changes Into That ofa Mature Thinker’ shows that the young male energy in us has togrow up sooner or later. The various stages of life’s experienceare often marked by the changing appearance of our face as weage and the lines and gray hair appear. Life can only be lived
in the fast lane for so long. It may have been appropriate to be
somewhat young and reckless, but now it is time to stop “tearingaround”, to be more responsive to life and aware of its limitationsand the consequences of one’s actions. Growing up and takinga more ‘Mature’ attitude will bring a new understanding of theworld and how it works.
Oracle: Regardless of age, it’s time for a more ‘Mature’ attitude.
The old ways of solving things will no longer work because thissituation requires a more mature response, which will lead to
another level of wisdom. There is only so much that one can
do with youthful force - now it’s time to use your intuitionand intellect. Look to what’s being learnt and allow wisdom toshine through. Even though there may be some level of pain inadjusting to a life with more responsibilities, let the situation help
bring about any necessary changes, even if they are hard to bearat first. Once we mature in life it is rare to go backwards. Feel
and acknowledge the ‘Youthful’ mindset that is now changing,
evolving and growing. Think things through and look to the
consequences of your actions. More respect will, or at leastshould, be shown towards people as they ‘Mature’ and take ona more thinking attitude. Getting to know yourself and yourresponses to the environment will produce a more ‘Mature’,grounded and empowered you.
Keywords: Thinking with the higher mind. Gaining maturity.Making wise decisions. Using the system to get what one wants.Growing up “overnight”. Having to change whether one likes itor not. Learning the lessons that come with age. Initiations intoadulthood. Life changing events. Thinking, pondering. Findinga state of calm. Refined thinking. Facing reality.
The Caution: Suddenly becoming old. Losing innocence andenergy. Clinging to the illusions of childhood. Peter-Pan attitudes.“Never growing up”. Feeling old when one could, or should, be
feeling young. Hormones taking over and dictating behavior.
Reacting with the lower emotional nature. Forever adolescent.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 17
To live lightheartedly but
not recklessly; to be gaywithout being boisterous; tobe courageous without being
bold; to show trust and cheerfulresignation without fatalism—this is the art of living.
Jean de La Fontaine
But |was so much older then;I'm younger than that now.
Bob Dylan
If youth but had the knowledge
and old age the strength.French Proverb
I'm aiming by the time I'm fiftyto stop being an adolescent.Wendy Cope
If youth knew; if age could.Henri Estienne
You're only young once, but you can be immature forever.John Greier
Be wise with speed, for a youth
at 40 is a fool indeed.
Edward Young
Don't trust anyone over 30 who
used to say “Don't trust anyone
over 30% Anon
The trick is growing up withoutgrowing old.Casey Stengel!
Stupid is forever.Anon

3-18: TWO CHINESE MEN TALKING
CHINESE IN A WESTERN CROWD
Commentary: The ‘Two Chinese Men’ are ‘Talking Chinese in aWestern Crowd’. Even though these ‘Chinese Men’ may be able
to speak English very well, it may not necessarily be their nativetongue or their preferred language. In a ‘Western Crowd’ theyare foreigners. However, as there are ‘Two’ of them, they havesomebody that shares a common language, thoughts and ideas,and they may feel totally at home. This Symbol shows that evenin complex groups there is an attraction toward people who havecultural or mindset similarities to ours. This could be about looks,nationality, ideas, language or even social status.
Oracle: No matter how adept one is at learning the ways ofdifferent people, there is still much greater ease and comfortin speaking our native tongue or speaking a language that moretruly reflects our attitudes and beliefs. By finding someone of likemind we can feel more comfortable and secure. Sharing mutualthoughts can transcend feelings of alienation and lead to new
understanding. It can, however, be frustrating and confusing tobe in a situation where few can understand what someone issaying and thinking. Misunderstandings sometimes occur whenwe hear a few isolated words and don't get the true picture ofwhat’s actually really being said. This can be even worse if thereis also some level of prejudice or criticism shown towards you orothers. There is a need to not judge others just because they aredifferent from one's self. If there’s a feeling of not quite fittingin, don’t be concerned - someone will turn up to share yourexperience. Indeed, there can be a strong feeling that there isonly one other person, or very few special people, with whom
you can share thoughts, plans and ideas. Having someone you
can communicate with on the same level will dispel any feelings
of alienation.
Keywords: Finding those of like mind. Leaving the “westerncrowd” behind. People having a specialized language that
doesn’t communicate with the larger population. Exclusivity incommunication. Interpreting or misinterpreting tones of voice.People being drawn to each other. “Chinese whispers’.
The Caution: Reluctance to adapt. Being with people whodon’t share the same philosophies or understandings. No oneto communicate with on the same level. Stories that get out of
control. Depending on others to mirror one’s self. Being in alienterritory. Schizophrenia. Hearing voices. Racism.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 18
The time to stop talking is when
the other person nods his head
affirmatively but says nothing.Anon
It was Greek to me.William Shakespeare
What a delightful thing is theconversation of specialists! One
understands absolutely nothingand it’s charming.Edgar Degas
I believe they talked of me,for they laughed consumedly.George Farquhar
A thousand cups of wine do notsuffice when true friends meet,
but half a sentence is too muchwhen there is no meeting ofminds.
Chinese Proverb
I was recently on a tour of LatinAmerica, and the only regret
I have was that I didn’t studyLatin harder in school so! couldconverse with those people.
Dan Quayle
A different language is adifferent vision of life.Federico Fellini
Great minds think alike.
Traditional Proverb
I speak Esperanto like a native.Spike Milligan

3-19: IN A MUSEUM A LARGE ARCHAIC
VOLUME REVEALS A TRADITIONAL
WISDOM
Commentary: The ‘Large Archaic Volume Reveals a TraditionalWisdom’. It is in a ‘Museum’ where it is safe and secure, andavailable to all who pass by and appreciate it. ‘Traditional Wisdom’is nowadays often taken for granted or ignored. In this Symbolthis ‘Wisdom’ is locked away in a ‘Museum’ like some kind of
curiosity that is somehow revered, but possibly no longer relevant.The ‘Museum’ may literally be a building, but it may also beinformation or knowledge hidden deep within yourself or theelders of your community. This ‘Wisdom’ is held within all of us
and needs to be tapped to be truly understood.
Oracle: Some effort needs to be made to discover this ‘LargeArchaic Volume’ and to allow the ‘Traditional Wisdom’ withinit to inspire your actions in present-day situations. You mayexperience intuitive ‘Wisdom’ that seems to be generated outsideyour own experience. In a progressive world we look so oftenfor new ideas and new solutions. ‘Traditional’ knowledge canseem to be irrelevant to the present, but in truth it is somethingwe often need in our lives. The knowledge behind those beliefsor rituals can be as relevant today as it has always been. Readingand studying this ‘Archaic Wisdom’ can bring a sense of pridein our ancestors and those that went before us. It is, however,often important to update the way we view and use 'TraditionalWisdom’. This may be what is needed in this situation. Confidencein your actions will come from foundations that have a history or
a strong sense of the past. Learn to take the best from the past,as it is useful for providing answers and clues to modern lifeproblems. However, let go of any old and outworn beliefs thatare holding you back.
Keywords: Reading and learning. Collective knowledge comingfrom ancient sources. Enormous potential to be tapped. TheAkashic records. Astrology. The Bible. Learning from the victoriesand mistakes of the past. Old stories that come out of the past orare hard to forget. Shamanic knowledge. Learning from heritage.The roots of civilization. Books. Ancient sources of information.The mysteries. Being in the public domain.
The Caution: Not understanding wise messages or advice. Being caught up in accepting only what tradition dictates. Old fashioned rules of "the book". Old and outdated laws.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 19
The books we read should be
chosen with great care, that
they may be, as an Egyptian
king wrote over his library, “The
medicines of the soul.”Paxton Hood
To me the charm of anencyclopedia is that it knowsand | needn't.Francis Yeats Brown
The Bible remained for mea
book of books, still divine—butdivine in the sense that all greatbooks are divine which teachmen how to live righteously.Sir Arthur Keith
There are worse crimes thanburning books. One of them isnot reading them.Joseph Brodsky
The worst thing about newbooks is that they keep us from
reading the old ones.Joseph Joubert
In science, read by preferencethe newest works. In literature,read the oldest. The classics arealways modern.Lord Edward Lytton
Books are the carriers ofcivilization. Without books,history is silent, literature dumb,science crippled, thought andspeculation ata standstill.Barbara Tuchman

3-20: A CAFETERIA WITH AN ABUNDANCE OF CHOICES
Commentary: 'A Cafereria' is shown which has 'an Abundance of Choices'. We are very lucky in this modern age that everything is laid out for us so easily and so temptingly. There are all sorts of foods available, and we have only to reach out and take them. There are sometimes so many choices that it can be hard to make up one's mind. Also, each has its price. The 'Cafeteria' is different from the a-la-carte restaurant-everything that is on display is available instantly. This can mean that what is available is not necessarily the best quality, but it is ready for use and consumption straight away. There is no time lost in preparing food - it's all there in front of you.
Oracle: Although everything looks so near and so convenient, be
careful of your choices. Each will nourish you and fill you up tosome extent, but some things are more nourishing or beneficial
than others. Some things are downright bad for your health andshould be avoided like the plague! However, we have a lot of free
choice in our modern society; if you don’t like your first choice,
you can go back for something else - that is, if you can afford
it. This Symbol is telling you that you may not need the speciala-la-carte options of life right now. There are plenty of things
immediately available that will do just fine. In fact you probably
don’t have the time or the opportunity to be too fussy. You mayhave to just take advantage of what is available. Take what youneed, use it quickly and effectively so that you can clear thoseissues and get on with the more difficult situations later whenthere is time for more planning and patience.
Keywords: Overwhelming alternatives in modern society.Satiation. Everything provided for. Self-service. Issues ofindulgence and one’s needs satisfied. Salivating over what’s ondisplay. The incredible number of “choices” in a technologicalsociety. Too many choices (food, lovers, jobs, opportunities) - solittle time. Instant gratification. Takeaway food. Buffet-style meals.Obesity. Chef’s surprises. The need to be discerning. Mechanized
systems that don’t require much thought.
The Caution: Taking everything you can simply because itis available, regardless of needs. The inability to make life’sdecisions. Things so near, yet so far. The inability to satisfy nomatter how much one has. Feeling that one has to eat because it’s
there. Indulgence beyond reason. Indigestion. Waste. Obsessionwith food. Using up people one by one.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 20
The whole world is our diningroom, but be careful: it is alsoour garbage can.
Ashleigh Brilliant
There are people who so
arrange their lives as to onlyfeed themselves on side dishes.Ortegy y Gassett
He looked at me as if! was a
side dish he hadn’t ordered.Ring Lardner
At a dinner party one shouldeat wisely but not too well, and
talk well but not too wisely.William Somerset Maugham
It is not enough to offer a
smorgasbord of courses. We
must insure that students arenot just eating at one end of the
table.A. Bartlett Giamatti
Appetite comes with eating;
the more one has, the more one
would have.
French Proverb
There are many of us whocannot but feel dismal about
the future of various cultures.
Often it is hard not to agree
that we are becoming culinary
nitwits, dependent upon fastfoods and mass kitchens andmegavitamins for our basically
rotten nourishment.M.F.K. Fisher

3-21: A TUMULTUOUS LABOR
DEMONSTRATION
Commentary: ‘A Tumultuous Labor Demonstration’ is shown. It
seems there are many people who are unhappy and who feel thatthey are not getting their fair share. ‘Labor Demonstrations’ cancause work to come to a standstill as people make their point.There is an injustice that needs righting and a spontaneous groupreaction may be what is needed to wake up those in charge.Sometimes there’s a need to lift one’s voice or make a huge fuss
otherwise nothing will be done; things are not likely to change bythemselves. Sometimes it is only by rallying many people together
in a common cause that you can be heard, or be taken seriously.
Indeed, grinding things to a halt may be the appropriate thing
to do at this time.
Oracle: This Symbol is suggesting that there are probably others
who are involved or sympathetic to your situation. However, ifthere is a feeling of being alone and powerless, it is important tofind out what level of support you actually have. Responses tothis situation can cause emotions, and therefore actions, to getout of control. On the other hand, if you are the one trying to
take advantage of someone else because you think they haven’tgot the power to defy you, you may be unleashing a reaction that
will involve many other people. Whatever the situation, never
underestimate the power of the collective, whether the people be
blue collar or corporate. Indeed, the level of one’s status plays asomewhat diminished role when it comes to the power and might
of the majority. It is important to speak up for your rights and
when the issues are important there is good reason to seek outsupport. You will be surprised how much support for the cause is
out there. Stand up for what you want and see what happens.
Keywords: Pushing for change to the status quo. Feeling hard
done by or taken advantage of. Seeking a better share of theprofits. Protest about having too much to do. Standing up foryourself. Issues being trivialized. Overreaction. Melodramaticapproaches to serious issues. Voting for change. Periodic blowingup. The rights of democracy. People in the street. Peace rallies.
The Caution: Using the group to accomplish a personal agenda.Asking for more than one’s share, or not being able to ask for one’s
share. Protests that can lead to riots. Resisting change. Feeling thatone’s vote or voice doesn’t count. Emotions that get completelyout of hand. Refusing to cooperate or to be productive. Brutality
and violence.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 21
A riot is the language of the
unheard.Martin Luther King Jr
We are all in this together, by
ourselves.Lily Tomlin
In union there is strength.Aesop
Whenever you find yourself onthe side of the majority, it’s time
to pause and reflect.Mark Twain
If we don’t stand for something,
we may fall for anything.Malcolm X
We are one, our cause is one,and we must help each other ifwe are to succeed.Frederick Douglass
Those who sit at the feast will
continue to enjoy themselves
even though the veil thatseparates them from the worldof toiling reality below has beenlifted by mass revolts and critics.Mary Ritter Beard
We must develop hugedemonstrations because theworld is used to big dramaticaffairs. They think in terms of
hundreds and millions and
billions... billions of dollars areappropriated at the twinklingof an eye. Nothing little counts.A. Philip Randolph

3-22: DANCING COUPLES CROWD THE
BARN IN A HARVEST FESTIVAL
Commentary: ‘Dancing Couples Crowd the Barn in a HarvestFestival’. Successful achievements have been accomplished, suchas the ‘Harvest’, and efforts have come to a fruitful conclusionand now it is time to gather together with others to celebrate.
Everyone should share the pleasure that comes from a successful‘Harvest’. The hard work is put behind them and they reap therewards of the benefits available to them in their leisure time.
As ‘The Barn’ is ‘Crowded’, many people from the community
come together to enjoy each other, the music and to dance. Bygathering together and celebrating, a sense of community spiritcan develop where there is always something worthwhile to becelebrated, even if it is not your own success.
Oracle: This Symbol shows the need to be in tune with seasonalrhythms and the natural flow of life. The ‘Harvest’ may meanmany things. It can be the actual bringing in of a ‘Harvest’,the birth of a baby, the first performance at school, a religious
ceremony, such as a communion or bar mitzvah, or a job welldone. It is wonderful when people come together and warmlyand sincerely congratulate someone who has good news without
nagging feelings of jealousy or resentment. There is a need toget back to a simpler, conservative level of enjoyment whereeach and every person’s achievement is everybody’s pleasure.This can lead to an increased understanding and concern forthe individuals within our community. It is also possible for oneperson’s pain to become everyone’s care. Whatever, the feelingof a healthy heart and a healthy mind, while taking a break fromthe struggles of providing, is what gives us the strength for thebattles of life. Perhaps it’s time to kick up your heels and dance.
See if you can take some time out to enjoy your environment,
the gifts of nature and the people around you.
Keywords: Celebrating the warmth and providence of the earth.The joy of nature’s harvest. Joining with others to celebrate. Thereality of rhythmical or seasonal adjustments. Agriculture. Goodold time values. Issues of pride in one’s place. Going out, having
fun, listening and dancing to music. Square dancing, ballroomdancing etc. Barns and dance halls.
The Caution: Being the wallflower and not participating. Waitingfor a special invitation rather than responding to the possibilitiesavailable. Resentment. Isolation. Going alone. False displays ofcommunity. Shallowness. Attention paid to only those who areimportant.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 22
The one thing that can solvemost of our problems is dancing.James Brown
Wives are people who feel they
don't dance enough.
Groucho Marx
If in February there be no rain, tis neight good for hay nor grain.Proverb
Not what we have but what
we enjoy constitutes ourabundance.
John Petit-Senn
Plant a kernel of wheat and you
reap a pint; plant a pint and you
reap a bushel. Always the law
works to give you back more
than you give.
Anthony Norvell
Earth is here so kind, that justtickle her with a hoe and she
laughs with a harvest.Douglas Jerrold
Out of the abundance of theheart the mouth speaketh.Romanian Proverb
Take rest; a field that has restedgives a bountiful crop.Ovid
Most of us spend the first six
days of each week sowing wildoats; then we go to church onSunday and pray for a cropfailure.Fred Allen

3-23: THREE FLEDGLINGS IN A NEST HIGH
UP IN A TREE
Commentary: The ‘Fledglings in the Nest’ are not yet able to fly
properly as they haven't developed the feathers for flying. They
are in their ‘Nest High Up ina Tree’. The ‘Three Fledglings’ should
feel warm and supported in their ‘Nest’ and safe and at home intheir environment. Although there is sometimes a feeling of beingleft alone and neglected, there is, hopefully, still a sense of safetyin their isolation. This reflects a time of dependency on others to
provide food and shelter. It may be too soon for them to move out ontheir own, but, after more nourishment, their time will come.
Oracle: The situation facing you is full of promise for the future.
The ‘Fledglings’ are not yet ready to fly and are still in need ofthe “mother” to sustain, protect, nourish and educate them. Theuniverse flows in a pattern, and this pattern includes taking time
to grow, mature and learn how to fly off into our own lives under
our own steam. This period in the ‘Nest’ gives us a time to be
dependant and nurtured. Knowing that you will be able to rise upon your own and leave the security and safety of the ‘Nest’ is themotivation to focus on whilst growing and developing your inner
self. There may be a need to resist feelings of frustration. Argumentsand contests with siblings can arise, especially if you feel “cooped
up” together. Perhaps you have to stay when you really would prefer
to leave because of others you may feel somewhat responsiblefor. Perhaps there would be more room available for everyone ifsomeone left the ‘Nest’. Whether you are one of the ‘Fledglings’
or one of the “parents" who have to protect and nurture, don’t
wortry—your opportunity for independence and free flight willcome. Integration of spirit, soul and body will lead to you being
able to fly on one’s own in good time.
Keywords: Discovering a whole new sense of being. Teaching.Safety. Living in small spaces. Wanting room to move. Privacy.Staying in the ‘Nest’ versus leaving it. Resisting change. Providing
room and board for others. Sharing flats and houses. The battle forsurvival. Being different, therefore breaking the mold. Brothers andsisters. Expecting to be looked after and fed. Growing spirituality.
Sibling rivalry.
The Caution: Wanting to leave home before one’s ready. Wonderingif one’s needs will be met. Arguments about the pecking order.Psychological immaturity. Feeling dependent on external influencesfor survival. Feeling trapped by circumstance. Insecurity. Feelingexposed to danger. Codependence. Not knowing or realizing one’splace. Falling out. Bickering over space.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 23
The greatest gifts you can giveyour children are the roots ofresponsibility and the wings ofindependence.Denis Waitley
What a cunning mixture ofsentiment, pity, tenderness andirony surrounds adolescence,
what knowing watchfulness!
Young birds on their first flightare hardly so hovered around.Georges Bernanos
In a broken nest there are fewwhole eggs.Chinese Proverb
Birds in their little nest agree;and ‘tis a shameful sight, when
children of one family fall out,
and chide, and fight.Isaac Watts
God stirs up our comfortablenests and pushes us over the
edge of them, and we are
forced to use our wings to save
ourselves from fatal falling.
Read your trials in this light,and see ifyour wings are beingdeveloped.Hannah Whitall Smith
The mother eagle teaches herlittle ones to fly by makingtheir nest so uncomfortable
that they are forced to leave itand commit themselves to theunknown world of air outside.
And just so does our God to us.
Hannah Whitall Smith

3-24: CAREFREE CHILDREN SKATING ON ICE
Commentary: ‘Carefree Children Skating on Ice’ symbolizes the
freedom and pleasure of ‘Children’ enjoying themselves outdoors,even though it’s winter and cold outside. It also reflects the generallack of concern they have for issues of personal danger. ‘Children’learn at an early age to ‘Skate’ over difficulties. Being ‘Carefree’ andunconcerned, they will often take risks when they play, unaware ofthe true realities and possible dangers in life. They keep ‘Skating’ and
playing, but need to be carefully aware of what’s going on aroundthem; otherwise the game could fall apart. There is the possibilityof losing the pleasure they are experiencing as cracks form in the
‘Tce’—their joy and pleasure becomes more risky.
Oracle: Ifyour situation is “on thin ice” it may be challenging, but itmay be that most of the challenge comes from the fears and concerns
that adulthood brings. Sharpen up your senses and your reflexesso that you can cope with any sudden surprises. Even if you havea positive attitude you may sense that everything could collapse at
any moment. Listen for subtle changes in the environment that tellyou whether you are still “safe” in your surroundings. If you don’t
acknowledge these fears and adjust yourself accordingly, then youmay be put at a disadvantage. Perhaps an avenue of escape should beset up in case cracks in the ‘Ice’ start to appear. Dangerous situationscan lead to a heightened sense of awareness and fun, but how longcan one feel safe taking such risks? Sooner or later the cracks willwiden. What will happen then? Similar to the ‘Children’, you may
not even be aware of the risk in your situation. Be wary not to blindlyrush into anything, as you may get to the point where you can’t safely
return to where you began. Watch out for the weak spots and listen
carefully for clues to how to maneuver through difficulties.
Keywords: Getting around difficult situations by making the mostof them (or evading them). Skating over problems. Finding creativeand childlike solutions. Testing the boundaries. Consideringconsequences. Tiptoeing around problems with family. Respondingquickly to every type of situation. Knowing how to maneuver tight
situations. Observing one’s center of gravity. Being keenly aware.
Testing the waters. Being alert.
The Caution: Rushing before checking that it is safe to do so. Living
for momentary pleasures, without thought of ramifications. Gettingaway with things through acting naively and childishly. Taking risksthat put others lives on the line. Going too far too fast. Lack of warm
clothing. Frozen atmospheres.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 24
The thinner the ice, the moreanxious is everyone to seewhether it will bear.Josh Billings
Children are curious and are risk
takers. They have lots of courage.
They venture out into a worldthat is immense and dangerous.A child initially trusts life and theprocesses of life.John Bradshaw
Aman learns to skate bystaggering about making a fool
of himself; indeed, he progresses
in all things by making a fool ofhimself.George Bernard Shaw
In skating over thin ice, our
safety is in our speed.Ralph Waldo Emerson
I don’t remember the first time
I skated on ice, I was too young.! do remember falling in love
with that wind-in-my-facefeeling while speed skating.Bonnie Blair
We live amid surfaces, and the
true art is to skate well on them.Ralph Waldo Emerson
In the depth of winter I finally learned that there was in meaninvincible summer.Albert Camus

3-25: A GARDENER TRIMMING LARGE
PALM TREES
Commentary: ‘A Gardener Trimming’ shows someone clipping
dead fronds off ‘Large Palm Trees’. He is working at getting ridof the old foliage that looks messy and unkempt. His job is to
take notice of the things that other people may find irritating orcluttering, but don’t have the time or the tools to take care ofthemselves. By ‘Trimming’ the lower fronds from the ‘Palm Trees’,
he reveals their beauty more and more as he works.
Oracle: This Symbol shows a clearing away of the evidence ofthe past in order to give a fresh, clean image. There may needto be a special effort to make your creations or situations lookstheir best. But how much of your work only ends up making littledifference to the overall picture? Sometimes we like to have our
past experiences on display, be they good or bad. This can elicit
admiration or, sometimes, sympathy. The truth about your life,however, is gained from what you have learnt and how it is takingyou forward. ‘Palm Trees’ always grow from the top of the head,from their crown. If you cut the crown out of a ‘Palm’ it willdie. The same applies to us. It is important to let the powerfulenergies within rise up and grow toward the heavens. What ispast is past and once it has revealed its purpose, it is time tocarefully and lovingly ‘Trim’ any unnecessary elements away. Itmay certainly feel as though you are leaving yourself open andwithout protection from the lower, basic elements, but everynow and then the ‘Gardener’ has to do his job. There is a timewhen our past does indeed create some protection, and there is
a time when we must listen to our intuition and know when itis time to let go. Learn what to say and when, and also what is,and what isn’t important.
Keywords: Trimming off nonessentials to get to the bare reality.Caring for one’s possessions. Doing the work simply because
it needs to be done. Getting rid of rubbish. Gardening andlandscaping. Editing words, thoughts, emotions - superfluous
things. Weeding out the unnecessary. Looking after cosmeticappearances. Tidying up. Tools. Trips to the dump.
The Caution: Doing the work because of routine, rather thanneed. Spending time doing things because of appearances.Neglecting the real issues at hand, which may include goodnourishment, watering, and caring for physical realities. Doingmenial jobs when one could be doing much bigger better ones.Not knowing when to stop. Leaving a mess.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 25
Good thoughts bear good fruit,
bad thoughts bear bad fruit—and maniis his own gardener.James Allen
Gather the flowers, but sparethe buds.
Andrew Marvell
Choosing goals that are
important to you is one of the
most essential things you cando in order to live your dreams.Les Brown
And add to these retired leisure,that in trim gardens takes his
pleasure.John Milton
‘Tis in ourselves that we are
thus or thus, Our bodies are ourgardens to which our wills aregardeners.William Shakespeare
Besides the noble art ofgetting things done, there isthe noble art of leaving thingsundone. The wisdom of life
consists in the elimination of
nonessentials.Lin Yu-t’ang
If write four words, I shall strikeout three.Anon

3-26: WINTER FROST IN THE WOODS
Commentary: ‘Winter Frost in the Woods’ shows things beingin a dormant stage. In the woods, winter is a time when energyis being used to reinforce the roots, to strengthen the support
system and to build up the nourishment that’s needed for thecoming seasonal growth and the fruits of spring and summer.There is no point trying to force growth now, it is not possible,
nor is it useful. This is not to say that this is not a valuable time.
It is. It can be very easy to lose sight of the importance of each-“season”.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, it may be wise to preparefor more vibrant and expansive times by using this period toensure that you get rest and recharge your batteries - on everylevel. Plans you’ve got for accomplishing things now may notwork. There may be delays, equipment failures, etc. This can be
frustrating. This Symbol says three things: there has been a time
of fruitfulness which has passed; this is a time of withdrawaland inner growth; and that a time of new beginnings or freshdevelopments is surely coming. Patience is needed for the time
being. The ‘Frost’ slows everything down as the temperature
drops. Emotions can become dull and you may feel less responsive
and decisions may be difficult to make because the future seemsless certain. You may feel sluggish or find it difficult to get goingbecause your emotions or your body are in need of a recharge.
Use this time to make plans for the future and to test possibilities.
It is a good time to pull back and observe how others are coping
and consider how to help them or have them help you. Imaginespring coming, with all its warmth and growth - this will giveyou a sense of hope and confidence in the future.
Keywords: The calm before the dawn. The silence inherent incold, barren times. Barren and cold feelings. Refrigeration andfreezing. Serenity. Surviving cold conditions. Feeling like one’s on
the outside. Being lost in the wilderness. Beautiful surrounds. Lackof fertility. Things freezing up. The need to rug up. Hibernation.Icicles. Battling through hard times. Depression. Growth that ishalted or held up. The inevitability of chage.
The Caution: Denying the natural flow of the season by trying torush things. Feeling “frozen out”, lost and neglected. Feeling deadlost and buried. Chills in the air. Keeping one’s feelings on ice.Immobility. Not knowing where to find warmth or nourishment.
Losing faith. Infertility. Frigid responses. Stagnation. Loss of love
and light. Stunted growth.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 26
Lord, how the day passes! It islike a life, so quickly when we
don't watch it,and so slowly ifwe do.
John Steinbeck
No winter lasts forever; nospring skips its turn.Hal Borland
If we had no winter, the springwould not be so pleasant, if
we did not sometimes taste of
adversity, prosperity would not
be so welcome.
Anne Bradstreet
|prefer winter and fall, whenyou feel the bone structure ofthe landscape—the lonelinessof it—the dead feeling of
winter. Something waits
beneath it-the whole story
doesn’t show.Andrew Wyeth
Let us learn to appreciate there
will be times when the trees willbe bare, and look forward tothe time when we may pick thefruit.
Anton Chekhov
Let us love winter,for it is the spring of genius.Pietro Aretino
Therefore my age is as a lusty
winter, frosty, but kindly.William Shakespeare

3-27: A YOUNG GYPSY EMERGING FROM
THE WOODS GAZES AT FAR CITIES
Commentary: ‘A Young Gypsy Emerging From the Woods Gazes
at Far Cities’ shows someone who is preparing to leave their home,their family and what is familiar to them and move out into a new
world. Only so much can be achieved living in the ‘Woods’ and
there’s the need, or the desire, to move to ‘Far Cities’. The ‘Gypsy’is somehow “different”, having things about their background orupbringing that have kept them away from the mainstream. The‘Gypsy’ also brings to mind music, dancing, the gift of prophecy
and a sense of the vibrancy and joy of life.
Oracle: This Symbol shows the desire to attempt or achieve
something that currently seems out of your reach or distant in
some way. You may be trying to participate with others or in anew arena of life or work, and finding it difficult because you don’tcommand enough acceptance or respect. If you have to deal withrejection, dust yourself off and take another stab at it. A positiveside of this Symbol is that an “outsider”, or someone alien to asituation, can bring new qualities to the establishment; things that
the conservatives may never have thought of, or tried. With this‘Emergence’, it is possible that you may not feel comfortable in any
particular place, the ‘Woods’ or the ‘Cities’, for a while. The ‘Gypsy’
may be the youth that is choosing to shift into the corporate andcommercial world; it may be the housewife that seeks to breakout; or it may be the dreamer that chooses to put their dreams into
practice and make a killing in business. There can be the worry ofnot having much in the way of financial resources or conventionalaccreditation. Although one’s gut instincts can see things through,hard work and changes of perspective are probably needed in orderto actually reach the ‘Far Cities’ and to function there successfully.Feeling assured that you belong, no matter where you are, is likely
to lead others to take you more seriously.
Keywords: Dreaming of becoming part of something far-off.Streetwise lessons. New perspectives arising from larger realities.The steps from bohemian to corporate and vice-versa. Learningabout credentials, using them to advantage. Things that are far offand distant. Ambition. Prophesy, astrology and tarot. Clairvoyance.Gypsies. Leaving family. Moving out on one’s own.
The Caution: Dissatisfaction and always looking elsewhere. Afeeling of being “cast out”. Feeling alienated even amongst friends.Finding your self a long way from home. Difficulty turning back.Being in limbo with a lack of ambition. Not having a family toturn to.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 27
I'm not gonna change the way|look or the way |feel to conform
to anything.I've always been
a freak. So I've been a freak all
my life and |have to live with
that, you know. I’m one of thosepeople.
John Lennon
I have become a queer mixture
of the East and the West, outof place everywhere, at homenowhere.
Jawaharlal Nehru
He had the uneasy manner of aman who is not among his ownkind, and who has not seen enough of the world to feel that
all people are in some sense his
own kind.Willa Cather
I hear that (New York Mayor)
Giuliani has cleaned this place
up, but Istill found a thousand
ways to get myself messed up.Richard Ashcroft
The biggest mistake peoplemake in life is not trying tomake a living at doing whatthey most enjoy.Malcolm S. Forbes
I wish I were with some of the wild people that run in thewoods, and know nothing about accomplishments!Joanna Baillie

3-28: SOCIETY GRANTING BANKRUPTCY TO HIM, A MAN LEAVES THE COURT WITH MIXED FEELINGS
Commentary: ‘Society Granting Bankruptcy To Him, a Man LeavesThe Court With Mixed Feelings’. The ‘Man’ has had some moralor social judgment made, or placed, upon him and now he mustconsider where the next phase of his life is going to take him.
For some reason, who he is, or what he’s done, has had to beconsidered and judged by others, and probably himself. To reachsuch a difficult position could be bitterly disappointing, but there
is the possibility of a new life ahead. All is not lost.
Oracle: This Symbol rarely describes ‘Bankruptcy’ in the literal
sense. There may be ‘Feelings’ of failure along with the need to
have the slate wiped clean, to be able to ‘Leave the Court’ andhave a chance to start over again. When you actually reach rockbottom there are not many choices as to the way out. There’s a
need to grab hold of hope and let go of fear. The group, or society,can sometimes accept the responsibility for problems that peoplecreate; and give the individual a second chance. This Symbol can
also show those that feel abandoned because someone has not lived
up to their responsibilities. Alternatively, one may be prepared togive up everything and move on to a new and better life. The mostimportant thing about ‘Bankruptcy’ is that it should be undertakenwithout leaving feelings of guilt and loss. Forgiving and forgettingare both necessary. New truths will be learnt and life will turnaround with a feeling of release from the regrets of the past as lifebecomes lighter and better. Things will surely pick up again on
many levels. One has to let go of things and be prepared to moveinto a new attitude or way of life. The mistakes of the past becomethe lessons that make for a better future.
Keywords: Protection. Being let off the hook and free to get on witha new life. Starting back at square one. Renewal. Sacrifice. The needto remain optimistic about the future. Release of pressure. Facingjudgment on one’s worth. Booms and busts. Playing with money.
Taking risks in the quest for money. Issues of deserving respect.Leaving the scene. Feeling sad and relieved at the same time.
The Caution: Feeling let off the hook and able to commit the same
mistakes. Running full tilt and risking everything. Not learningthe lessons of how to operate in a structured society. Shiftingresponsibility onto others. Going “off duty” regardless of howothers feel. Moral bankruptcy. Being kicked out. Using otherpeople’s resources. Dejected and deserted.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 28
The worst bankrupt in the world
is the person who has lost hisenthusiasm.
H.W. Arnold
It takes 20 years to build areputation... and five minutesto ruinit.Anon
The three things most difficult
are: to keep a secret, to forgetan injury, and to make good useof leisure.
Chilo
Making a life comes beforemaking a living.Anon
He is rich who owes nothing.
French Proverb
It is no disgrace to start all over.It is usually an opportunity.
George Matthew Adams
A man’s judgment is best when
he can forget himself andany reputation he may haveacquired and can concentrate
wholly on making the right
decisions.Raymond A. Spruance
Justice and judgment lie often aworld apart.Emmeline Pankhurst

3-29: THE FIRST MOCKINGBIRD OF
SPRING SINGS FROM THE TREE TOP
Commentary: ‘The First Mockingbird of Spring Sings From theTree Top’. The ‘Mockingbird’ is usually thought of as copyingothers and therefore not particularly original. However, althoughthe ‘Mockingbird’ copies the sounds of other birds, it uses the bestof those sounds to create a very unique call of its own. Some say
that the ‘Mockingbird’s’ call is the sweetest of all, especially if it’s‘The First Mockingbird of Spring’. It is heralding the new season;which signifies new life, new growth, warmth and fertility. Being‘The First’ shows that the ‘Mockingbird’ is ready to spring to actionwhen it is the right time. It is useful to be like the ‘Mockingbird’
in many circumstances.
Oracle: The trick with this Symbol is to take the best of what’savailable, make sense of it and to then improve it. There can be
a great deal of skill involved in this, but there are always those
who will respond with scorn or jealousy, especially if a successof some type is involved. Knowing what to discard or leave outwhen you have a number of options is a valuable skill and mayneed to be employed now. If you are not good at these sorts of
decisions then perhaps you need to employ the services of a good‘Mockingbird’. It may be important to listen to and see what “song”‘The Mockingbird Sings’. Are the thoughts original and uniqueor are they borrowed from others without any sense of a filter ofpersonal authenticity? The new “song” that is created can be anannouncement or signal of new beginnings. This can also showthe mimicking of “sounds” to bring joy to those who need to hearthe right thing. Sometimes it is better to tell someone what theywould like to hear than to confront him or her with a harsh realityor something new and unfamiliar. It will still be, however, uniquelyput together by the ‘Mockingbird’ and should leave anyone whohears the message happy.
Keywords: Enormous creative potential and talent. Integratingsounds to find a new melody. Being the first to see potential.Music and musicians. Interpretation. Pleasing others. Getting
the story out first. Seeing and telling things ahead of their time.Being an innovator. Passing on messages. Tunes, songs. Positivevibrations.
The Caution: Taking from others and claiming the credit. Beingnoisy. Announcing new possibilities or just sounding off? Mimickingothers. Not coming up with one’s own creative ideas. Having to
always get in first. Making a noise and expecting others to respond.
Stretching the truth. Revving up a story to get an effect.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 29
No bird has ever uttered note
that was not in some first bird’s
throat, Since Eden’s freshness
and man’s fall, No rose has beenoriginal.
Thomas Bailey Aldrich
Every man is a borrower and
a mimic, life is theatrical and
literature a quotation.Ralph Waldo Emerson
Use what talent you possess:the woods would be very silentif no birds sang except thosethat sang best.
Henry Van Dyke
The bird is known by hisnote, the man by his words.
Romanian Proverb
If keep a green bough in myheart, the singing bird willcome.
Chinese Proverb
The birds |heard today sang as
freshly as if it had been the first
morning of creation.
Henry David Thoreau
Until spring comes, nightingalesdo not sing.Azerbaijani Proverb
The early bird catches theworm.
Proverb

3-30: A PARADE OF BATHINGS BEAUTIES BEFORE LARGE BEACH CROWDS
Commentary: The ‘Parade of Bathing Beauties Before Large BeachCrowds’ is reminiscent of the Miss America pageant, where the
women line up in their bikinis and their finest dresses. They presentthemselves beautifully and work hard to make an impact with theirlooks and grace. Their bodies and their fresh smiling faces are notonly to be admired, but also judged by others.
Oracle: In this situation you may feel as though you are only being
appreciated for your superficial attractions and beauty without
appreciation of your deeper purpose. However, this is what is oftenneeded in order to gain the attention of others, particularly if theyare strangers. Be aware that you are getting a lot of attention, so it isimportant to put on your best face and to present it with confidenceas there is a potential audience that may be used to your advantage.
It is not really the superficiality of the ‘Bathing Beauties’, but really
of the ‘Crowds’ that is revealed here. Those putting themselveson display are doing so by choice and with some knowledge of
the fact that they are trying to gain the attention, admiration
and appreciation of the people watching. It is the ‘Crowd’ thatis responding to basic responses which may vary from seekingsimple entertainment to voyeurism. Displays of beauty and physical
fitness can bring joy and stimulation from others or jealousy andderision, so be careful of what’s being revealed and whom you
are revealing it to. After the process of display and attention hasbeen achieved, there will be opportunities to relate on a deeper
level. When you are able to bring the situation to a more personaland one-to-one basis some real value can be gained. Somethingmust begin the process and being noticed for whatever reason isa good start.
Keywords: Being on show. Sheer attraction of beauty. Seeking
praise. Displaying in order to get people to observe and/or
evaluate. Beauty pageants. Bathing costumes and skimpy clothing.
Beaches. Lifeguards. Beauty judges. Nudist beaches. Breast sizes.The mysteries of the feminine. Playing dressups. Gatherings ofgoddesses. Mermaids converging. The water element. Recognizingsuperficiality and shallow behavior. Water nymphs.
The Caution: Using superficialities to win support. Givingimportance to the issues of appearance. Neglecting the “beautywithin”. Too much makeup. Flaunting one’s body. Not employingintellect. Leering, jeering. Lusting after the unattainable. Feelinglike merchandise. Making superficial judgments.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Gemini 30
Beauty is in the heart of thebeholder.Al Bernstein
Beauty in things exists in themind which contemplates them.David Hume
That which is striking and
beautiful is not always good;
but that which is good is alwaysbeautiful.
Ninon De L'Enclos
You must look into people, aswell as at them.Lord Chesterfield
I'm tired of all this nonsense about
beauty being only skin-deep.
That's deep enough. What do youwant—an adorable pancreas?Jean Kerr
Sunburn is very becoming, butonly when it is even. One mustbe careful not to look like amixed grill.Noel Coward
Beauty is everywhere awelcome guest.Johann Wolfgang Von Goethe
The ideal has many names, and
beauty is but one of them.
W. Somerset Maugham
You can take no credit forbeauty at sixteen. But ifyou arebeautiful at sixty, it will be yoursoul's own doing.
Marie Carmichael Stopes

4-1: ON A SHIP SAILORS LOWER AN OLD
FLAG AND RAISE A NEW ONE
Commentary: ‘On a Ship Sailors Lower an Old Flag and Raisea New One’ signals a real turning point. A ‘Flag’ is symbolic ofideals and it represents and shows an allegiance or loyalty to those
ideals. That the ‘Sailors Lower an Old Flag and Raise a New One’
shows a symbolic expression of a change of loyalties or alliances.
Although this may not be a decision made by every one of those‘On the Ship’, those in charge seem sure of what they’re doing.What was important before is no longer relevant.
Oracle: There is, or there soon will be, a momentous change in theworks. Something that once stood as part of your life is changing,whether this is something you desire, or not. As we grow and
change there are many things both big and small, which likesignposts, show or signal our position and beliefs. The changes
could be of clothing, style, work, one’s primary relationship,sexuality, country or even friends. Some people may be verypleased with this new shift, while others may feel neglected
or shut out. Indeed, some may be shocked at this seeminglysudden change, even if it’s been coming for a while. Those whohave been really observant of what’s been unfolding may not besurprised at all. The important point is that it is not enough to justgo through change as we journey through the emotional seas oflife; we also need to make commitments of some kind and giveobvious signs of where we stand, who we stand with and whatwe stand for. Something is changing, possibly dramatically, andthis transformation should be taken seriously. What signals are
you sending out or displaying? It might be a good idea to run any
new ideas or plans up the “flagpole” to see if anybody salutesthem. Making affirmations of what is wanted may be a useful
gesture to yourself and those involved.
Keywords: Changing loyalties. Turning points in one’s obligationsor duties. Announcing new standards. Turning a corner. Gettingrid of the old guard. Letting go of old allegiances and taking
up new ones. Giving up old ways. Changing bad habits. Takingthe helm. Switching sexual preferences. Sailors. Ships. Flags.Divorces. Marriages. Change of shifts.
The Caution: Rejecting the old just for the sake of change.Fickleness. Not sticking with one thing for long enough torealize the rewards of loyalty. Being a traitor. Religious quarreling.Going only where the “good action” is. Piracy. Mutiny. Treason.Abandoning former priorities.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 1
This is the flag of the future, butit does not dishonor the past.Lester Bowles Pearson onCanada’s new maple leaf flag
The world is in everlasting
conflict between the newidea and the old allegiances,
new arts and new inventions
against the old establishment.Joyce Cary
Times change and we change
with them.Anon
It is said that !am against
change.! am not against
change.! am in favor of changein the right circumstances.And
those circumstances are when itcan no longer be resisted.The Duke of Cambridge
Ifyou want a symbolic gesture,don’t burn the flag, wash it.
Norman Thomas
If you are ashamed to stand byyour colors, you had better seekanother flag.Anon
From the death of the old thenew proceeds, And the life oftruth from the death of creeds.
John Greenleaf Whittier
All changes, even the most longedfor, have their melancholy; forwhat we leave behind is a part of
ourselves; we must die to one lifebefore we can enter into another!Gail Sheehy

4-2: A MAN ON A MAGIC CARPET OBSERVES VAST VISTAS BELOW
Commentary: ‘A Man on a Magic Carpet Observes Vast VistasBelow’ is an image straight out of the “Arabian Nights” stories.
King Solomon would tell the wind where he wanted to go, andthe carpet rose in the air, landing him in the place he designated.In this Symbol, the ‘Magic Carpet’ can elevate the ‘Man’ aboveeverything going on in his life, making it possible for him toescape problems and fly above and away from them. He is able
to see what’s going on from a calm, possibly detached and rathercreative state, with his imagination working strongly.
Oracle: Even though you may feel that there are many possibilitiesopen to you, you may be unable to proceed with realistic orgrounded plans, leaving you in a state of limbo. It’s important tomake sure that you are not somehow disconnected from reality.
It may be that some of the ‘Vast Vistas’ that are ‘Observed’ arereally only fantasy, imagination or wishful thinking. There maybe more inspiration in your mind’s eye than can be translatedinto real life. On the other hand, you are probably in a state ofheightened awareness and have a broad overview of the situation,which can give you an opportunity to plan for future action.
Try to accept any positive opportunities that are offered, but
allow your self time to put these opportunities into perspective.What is really possible now? There may be feelings of isolation.Perhaps you're running away from the truth or feeling that you're
the only one who can truly see the whole picture. It is probablybest not to rush into anything permanent now. This is somethingthat you have to work through slowly and carefully. Remember
the privilege of being given the opportunity of such an elevatedview. Take some time, look around, but remember to come backto reality when it’s time!
Keywords: Elevated observations and heightened feelings. Havingfaith in the good things of life. Not wanting to see the ugly truth ofreality. UFO’s and aliens. Escapism. Perspective and imagination.
Out of body experiences. Dreams. Seeking transcendence. Astralprojection. The dream of far destinations. Film and video.
The Caution: Feeling above everything and unaffected bysituations. Losing touch with reality. Missing the point. Trying to
avoid what’s going on. Peter Pan attitudes. Not feeling responsiblefor anything. Longing for something ‘magic’ to happen. Buggingdevices. Living in a fantasy world.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 2
A field cannot well be seen from
within the field.Ralph Waldo Emerson
Imagination is more important
than knowledge.Albert Einstein
What if everything is an illusion
and nothing exists? In that case,I definitely overpaid for mycarpet.Woody Allen
I know of no more encouragingfact than the unquestionableability of man to elevate his lifeby conscious endeavor.Henry David Thoreau
Caution: Cape does not enable
user to fly.
Batman costume warninglabel
‘Tis distance lends
enchantment to the view, And
robes the mountain in its azurehue.Thomas Campbell
Let him who elevates himselfabove humanity ...say,if he pleases, “I will never
compromise”; but let no one
who is not above the frailties
of our common nature disdaincompromise.Henry Clay

4-3: AN ARCTIC EXPLORER LEADS A
REINDEER THROUGH ICY CANYONS
Commentary: ‘An Arctic Explorer Leads a Reindeer Through
Icy Canyons’ shows a situation of risk and hard slog to get to adestination. There are two elements here: the ‘Arctic Explorer’who is prepared to seek out new possibilities even at great riskto his life, and the ‘Reindeer’ who may have been quite contentwhere it was, but does not have the possibility (or the imagination)to find new pastures or the will to assert its own desires. They
have somehow become dependent upon each other for mutual
success and survival. There is no way of knowing exactly what is
going to happen or if they will, indeed, reach their objective. The
‘Reindeer’ may regret being roped into this endeavor, but whathas been started can’t be abandoned or stopped mid-journey.However, it is actually the ‘Reindeer’ that is naturally suited tothese conditions, enabling it to push onward if the ‘Explorer’finds it too difficult.
Oracle: It is through adapting to changing needs in theenvironment and being constantly aware of the difficultiesinvolved that success can be achieved. You need to persevere
and progress slowly. There is probably no going back; there may
be little value in retracing your steps. Further, there is probablyno possibility of stopping as the situation could freeze-up in an
instant. You may be surprised by “icy” feelings and cold responsesfrom yourself, or others. However, these “cold winds” may indeedhave been building up for some time. Although you may have helpfrom those around you, it is more a time of struggling throughan unusual difficulty rather than worrying about creating any
proper appearance. Be prepared to use warmth and love, as thiswill bring more light and joy. Keep going - indeed it may be youronly option.
Keywords: Using animal instincts to get through tough times.Facing bad weather and hardship. Following the leader withoutknowing where one’s going. Unfamiliar surroundings. The point
of no return. Being in a cul-de-sac. Being led around by the hand
(or the nose). Treading carefully. Icebergs. Glaciers. Snow andice. Risky ventures. The Titanic story.
The Caution: Taking those unfamiliar to the situation andunwittingly heading towards danger. Putting one’s self throughhard times when it’s avoidable. Restrictive outlooks on life.
Frozen responses. Frigidity. Feeling lost, alone, frozen with fear
or forsaken. Willingly going the hard way. Lack of provisions.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 3
It is easier to sail manythousand miles through coldand storm and cannibals, ina governmentship with fivehundred men and boys to assist
one, than it is to explore theprivate sea, the Atlantic and
Pacific Ocean of one’s beingalone.
Henry David Thoreau
Patience serves as a protectionagainst wrongs as clothes do
against cold. For ifyou put
on more clothes as the cold
increases, it will have no powerto hurt you.
Leonardo da Vinci
If you're going through hell,keep going.Winston Churchill
Aman never reaches that dizzyheight of wisdom that he can
no longer be led by the nose.Mark Twain
The state with the highest
percentage of people who walkto work is Alaska.Trivia.net
I believe that Ronald Reagan
will someday make this countrywhat it once was... an arcticwilderness.Steve Martin

4-4: A CAT ARGUING WITH A MOUSE
Commentary: The Symbol of ‘A Cat Arguing With a Mouse’ bringsto mind feelings of unfair play all the way to downright bullying.The ‘Cat’ may be planning to eventually eat the ‘Mouse’, but hemay also just be throwing it around for his own enjoyment. Thereis an imbalance at work here. It seems that someone or somethingis trying to gain unfair advantage against a weaker opponent. How
long can someone expect to get away with treating someone astheir victim? The situation may feel life threatening, but couldturn out to be more of a game. The ‘Cat’ may get bored with thewhole thing, or become distracted, if the ‘Mouse’ is lucky!
Oracle: Along with bullying, this Symbol can show bickering,which ultimately is time consuming and often doesn’t lead to
anything. Trying to influence another’s thoughts by constantlyrepeating or going over things is not acceptable, especially if itfeels like harassment. If you feel shell-shocked from being “tossedaround”, physically or emotionally, there may be a need to retireto somewhere inaccessible while you regain your breath andyour confidence. If someone is tormenting you, why don’t you
become the “mouse that roared”? Just because you are in a weakor submissive position doesn’t mean you have to sit there andjust take it. Grab any opportunity you can to turn the situationto your advantage. However, no matter which side you are on,whether you're the ‘Cat’ or the ‘Mouse’, there are probably notrue “winners” in this predicament. Also, this Symbol can implya lot of ‘Arguing’ going on inside your own mind, which can
lead to feeling dis-empowered. How long can you engage in thisgame when the outcome is assuredly a useless waste of time andenergy? Are you man or mouse?
Keywords: Aggressively and actively taking advantage ofsituations or people. Hide and go seek games. Aggression vs.innocence. Harassment. Standing up for one’s self. The Davidand Goliath story. Questioning established power structures.
Looking out for one’s best interests. Shock and fear. Cats. Mice.Hiding. Waiting.
The Caution: Time-wasting arguments and bickering. Beingaggressive because one can. Picking on those smaller. Fightingdirty. Being patronizing. Power trips. Hiding away to avoidbeing targeted. Feeling like someone’s prey. Feeling victimizedand bullied. Antagonism. Unfair battles. Those who think theyknow more. Mental, physical or emotional torment. Beating
yourself up.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 4
When the cat’s away the mousewill play.Proverb
It’s not the size of the dog in the
fight; it’s the size of the fight in
the dog.
Mark Twain
When the mouse laughs atthe cat there is a hole nearby.
Nigerian Proverb
The catin gloves catches nomice.
Benjamin Franklin
When Goliath came against
the Israelites, the soldiers all
thought, “He’s so big we can
never kill him.” But Davidlooked at the same giant andthought, “He’s so big, | can’tmiss.”
Ode to Joy
Kitty heaven is mousy hell.Anon
The lion and the calf will lay
down together, but the calfwon't get much Sleep.
Woody Allen
The mouse is a magician withonly one trick: it can cast anillusion thatit is as big as anelephant.Jessica MacBeth

4-5: AT A RAILROAD CROSSING,AN
AUTOMOBILE IS WRECKED BY ATRAIN
Commentary: ‘At a Railroad Crossing, an Automobile is Wrecked Bya Train’. This image sounds rather ominous, however the only way
that an ‘Automobile’ can get ‘Wrecked at a Railroad Crossing’ is if it
gets in the path of the ‘Train’. The ‘Car’ in this Symbol represents thefree will of the individual, having the ability to go in the direction thedriver chooses, and the ‘Train’ represents a carriage for many people,the collective. The ‘Train’ can only go on its tracks; it has no abilityto maneuver tricky situations or to change direction quickly.
Oracle: Although this Symbol sounds worse that it often really is,there is a need for caution. The individual’s ideas or actions willnot easily survive in a collision with the more powerful collective,
especially if they are reckless or not carefully thought through.Even with the best of intentions, this may not be a good time to beinsisting bravely that you or your needs be considered. The collectivehas so much momentum; it will not stop its course to think aboutwhat’s happening to a single individual. If someone pits themselvesand their energies against a group or society, there is a good chancethat they will lose, at least in some way. Be careful how much youtake on in this situation. This Symbol was prevalent in the life anddeath of Princess Diana. She was endeavoring to “outrun” the media
on the night of her tragic accident. It seems sure that she was fed-up with compromising herself with the needs of the media, her
driver speeding in an attempt to outrun them. One can only speedfor so long in life before one becomes an accident victim or someother kind of statistic. Ifyou examine what risks are being taken inyour situation you may realize the need to slow down or drop the
need to “win” or “outrun”. Done carefully however, you can indeedchallenge the “big guys”, winning and coming out on top.
Keywords: Not looking to the consequences of actions. Recklesslygoing for an objective. Not considering the ramifications. Lots of
people causing problems with scheduling. Having the guts to goagainst society. Cars, trains. Individual rights. Rebelling. Crossroads.The need for good timing.
The Caution: Recklessness. Sacrificing individuals for larger gains.Working until one drops. Not looking left or right for possibletrouble. Going in the wrong direction. Working at cross-purposes.
Not nourishing one’s self. Putting the desire for gain before one’smore basic personal needs. Valuing possessions before people.Talking so no one gets a word in. Going off the rails. Upsetting orobstructing others. Wreckage. Emotional panic. Spinning out of control.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 5
Haste makes waste.Saying
They're funny things, Accidents.You never have them till you're
having them.Eeyore —- Winnie the Pooh
Cover me,I’m changing lanes.Bumper Sticker
It takes 8,460 bolts to assemblean automobile, and one nutto scatter it all over the road.
Bumper Sticker
Everything is energy in motion.Pir Vilayat Inayat Khan
I couldn't repair your brakes, so!made your horn louder.Bumper Sticker
Even ifyou're on the right track,
you'll get run over ifyou just sitthere.Will Rogers
There is more to life thanincreasing its speed.Mahatma Gandhi
The major cause of auto wrecksis a screw loose in the nutbehind the wheel.
Bumper Sticker
Decisions are like switchpoints on a railroad track. They
determine where you will end
up in life.Elder Richard G. Scott

4-6: IN SPRING GAME BIRDS ARE
FEATHERING THEIR NESTS
Commentary: The ‘Game Birds’ in this Symbol can picture the
desire for security in the midst of a rather unstable situation. ‘BirdsFeather Their Nests’ in readiness for a new life and new beginnings.These are ‘Game Birds’, which can symbolize an unknown future,danger or threat in the environment. Even though there is an
optimistic feeling about the future and the prospect of a new lifebeginning, there is the danger of being expendable in some way.
Oracle: In your situation, endeavor to feel comfortable and right athome, however, remember that security may only be temporary.Be careful not to become too complacent, but ensure that youaren't frightened at any sudden surprises or moves. You may haveto relinquish what you've built up or worked for and have to move on
at some stage. Ifyou are entirely safe and stable in this situation, you
wiil most probably be able to build a bigger and better ‘Nest’ as time
goes by. From another perspective, this can symbolize situations
where the “parents” need to nurture and protect the “kids”. Thismay be in personal relationships or even a business situation. Alsobe careful that someone is not trying to kick you, or somebody else,
out of a space that should rightfully be yours. Invasions from other‘Birds’ can lead to one’s home being endangered, if not completelytaken over by strangers. As human beings we have distancedourselves from the “eat or be-eaten” world of nature. However,we have created other dangers for ourselves and hence the need fordifferent strategies and survival techniques. Where can you find a
place of security? This Symbol can remind us that we may be able
to do things in comfort and apparent safety, however, if others arecontrolling our environment there are still concerns that may haveto be dealt with.
Keywords: Instinctive dedication. Laying the groundwork for thoseto come. Creating a base to feel safe. Nurturing. Endangered habitat.Raising money. Making yourself or someone else comfortable.Interior decoration. Preparation. Home building. Landlords andtenants. Noisy or nosy neighbors. Renting vs. owning. Watching fordanger. The nesting instinct. Renovations. Babies' rooms. Workingto pay the mortgage or rent.
The Caution: Being unnecessarily afraid to venture out on “one’s
own”. Taking over other people’s territory. Feeling unwanted.Danger. Fussing over small details. Over-preparation. Not knowinghow long one can hold out ina situation. Being vulnerable to change.Being at the mercy of others. Endless housework.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 6
It is an ill bird that fouls its own
nest.Romanian Proverb
Every bird likes his own nestbest.Romanian Proverb
However well organized the
foundations of life may be, life
must always be full of risks.
Havelock Ellis
If you have built castles in theair, your work need not be lost;that is where they should be.
Now put the foundations underthem.Henry David Thoreau
Some people are makingsuch thorough plans for rainydays that they aren't enjoyingtoday’s sunshine.William Feather
Conscience is the nest where allgood is hatched.Welsh Proverb
Whether you wind up with
a nest egg or a goose eggdepends on the kind of chickyou married.
Wall Street Journal
Birds in their little nest agree;and ‘Tis a shameful sight, whenchildren of one family fall out,and chide, and fight.Isaac Watts

4-7: TWO FAIRIES (NATURE SPIRITS)
DANCING ON A MOONLIT NIGHT
Commentary: ‘Two Fairies (Nature Spirits) Dancing On a MoonlitNight’ is a beautiful image of lightness, fun and carefree joy. Thefact that they are ‘Fairies’ or ‘Nature Spirits’ shows wonderfulenergy that can be enjoyed and marveled at. That they are ‘Dancingon a Moonlit Night’ brings an element of fantasy and beauty—however, there can be a lack of reality. The relationship of the‘Two Fairies’ can be wonderful for special occasions, particularlyduring romantic moments on a ‘Moonlit Night’, but when daylight
comes they may have to return to the real world.
Oracle: Your intuition and imagination may be heightened now,with a stronger sense of your spiritual or emotional centers. Allowyour creativity to flow without worrying about its usefulness.Finding a friend, or friends, to share things with will enhance yourexperience. Some caution, though, is necessary. One can get lostin abstractions and fantasies that can lead away from the truth that
should really be faced. For now, life may seem wonderful, perhaps
idyllic and romantic, but how do, or will, things measure up in the
clear light of day? What will happen if you forget being rational
and just enjoy what’s happening? What is really going on? Are youtruly communicating and understanding each other, or just playingaround because it feels good, or somehow familiar? This Symbolcertainly shows the need for some fun or emotional release. Atthe end of the day; we all need a release of the inner spirit. Reality
may appear slightly hazy at the moment, like everything couldslip away in a minute. However, you can reap rewards by lettingyour dreams wander into the realms of ‘Fairies and Nature Spirits’.
Before you go to sleep, try thinking of this Symbol and watch formessages in your dreams.
Keywords: Usually invisible astral realms. Reconnecting with
the feminine. Dancing. Avoiding harsh reality. Slipping awaysomewhere unnoticed. Seeing what’s usually hidden. Romancesthat have difficulty in the real world. Dreams and fantasies. Sharingcommon ground. Full moon celebrations. Moonlight. Sunlight.Couples inspirited. Women celebrating. Other realms. Invokingfantasies. Moondances.
The Caution: Losing one’s self in emotional dreaming. Notseeing the reality of the other you’re “dancing” with. Lackingresponsibility. Escapist attitudes vs. serious decisions. Relationshipswith no earthly reality or substance. Something too good to betrue. Finding it hard to connect with others.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 7
The loveliest of faces are to be
seen by moonlight, when one
sees half with the eye and half
with the fancy.Persian Proverb
Exuberance is beauty.William Blake
Dreams are true while they last,and do we not live in dreams.Lord Alfred Tennyson
Got no checkbooks, got no
banks. Still I'd like to express
my thanks, I got the sun in themornin’and the moon at night.
Irving Berlin
The moon develops theimagination, as chemicalsdevelop photographic images.Sheila Ballantyne
They dined on mince, and slices
of quince, Which they ate witharuncible spoon; And hand inhand, on the edge of the sand,They danced by the light of themoon.Edward Lear
Look for me by moonlight;
Watch for me by moonlight;
I'll come to thee by moonlight,Though Hell should bar theway!Alfred Noyes

4-8: A GROUP OF RABBITS DRESSED
IN CLOTHES AND ON DIGNIFIED
PARADE
Commentary: ‘A Group of Rabbits Dressed in Clothes’ can picturepeople who may be trying to be more, or act like they are more,than they really are. The fact that they are ‘On Dignified Parade’
means that they are working to put on a good show and to standup for themselves. Our outer garments and demeanor act to bothshow and disguise who we truly are and what we are really feel
about ourselves. It’s difficult to completely disguise the attempt,
but the effort of trying to advance themselves may be appreciated
and rewarded with people taking them more seriously. The'Rabbits' are still 'Rabbits' after all.
Oracle: Your abilities can take a leap ahead of normal development,
simply by making an attempt to be or to do more. This Symbol
pictures the process of projecting into the future a higher sense ofbeing or thinking forward into a more intelligent, more successfullevel of life. Another aspect of this Symbol speaks of wanting
to cover up one’s sexuality with an outer display of dignity andconservatism. This may be a necessity in some more conservativesocial circles. Through a sense of inferiority, there may be a needto take on another’s role or personality. By wearing elaborateor unusual clothes, gowns, wigs, crowns etc, we can influenceor change how others perceive us. Clothing and costumes can
either elevate or degrade one’s status. Imagine yourself clothedelegantly and having a ‘Dignified’ stance as this can lead othersto think more of you. Project yourself with a sense of confidence
and dignity. Don’t be restricted by class, or status—excel other’s
expectations, and don’t let anyone “pigeonhole” you.
Keywords: Emulation of higher forms. Procreation and havingbabies. Dressing up. Modeling shapes and forms. Parading andbeing on parade. Attempts to overcome class barriers. Popularitycompetitions. Groups with a particular agenda. Uniforms.Religious garments. Lifeforms posing as humans. Outfits thatproject a particular agenda, regardless of reality. Identification
parade and identikit photos.
The Caution: Pretending to be what one is not. Sublimating one’sinstinctual (or animal) needs to maintain a dignified, straightfront. Deception. Strutting one’s stuff. Showing off. Demanding
attention.Appropriating an office or sense of authority. Sociopaths.Losing respect. Criticism of those just starting out.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 8
You can fool too many of the
people too much of the time.
James Thurber
Those who do not study areonly cattle dressed up in men’sclothes.Chinese Proverb
Lying to ourselves is moredeeply ingrained than lying to
others.Fyodor Dostoevski
I pretended to be somebody I wanted to be until finally|
became that person. Or hebecame me.Cary Grant
There’s no labora mancan do
that’s undignified—if he doesit right.
Bill Cosby
A graduation ceremonyis an event where thecommencement speaker tellsthousands of students dressedin identical caps and gownsthat “individuality” is the key to
success.Robert Orben
Aman is known by the bookshe reads, by the company hekeeps, by the praise he gives,
by his dress, by his tastes, by his
distastes, by the stories he tells,
by his gait, by the notion in hiseye.Ralph Waldo Emerson

4-9: A SMALL NAKED GIRL BENDS OVER
A SPARKLING POND TRYING TO
CATCH A FISH
Commentary: The ‘Small Naked Girl’ represents an innocentnaivety and spontaneous fun. The fact that she’s ‘Small and Naked’shows that society’s demands and pressures do not yet restrain her.She ‘Bends Over a Sparkling Pond Trying to Catch a Fish’. Whatthe ‘Girl’ is trying to catch may be elusive, continually moving and
difficult to grab hold of, or really grasp. This can be physically,
emotionally or mentally. Still, it seems if she just keeps trying, she
may very well succeed.
Oracle: You may be unable to grasp the meaning or the true promise
of your situation, but still fascinated with what is happening. Your
position is relatively innocent and your perceptions may be limited,
however lessons will eventually be learnt about what is and what
isn’t possible. This Symbol can indicate the pure thrill of the chasewithout considering the consequences of what would happen ifone actually caught something (the reward of the ‘Fish’ in thisSymbol). Keeping a sense of delight and fun whilst going afterwhat you want will ultimately lead to fulfillment on some level.
However, be wary of doing it for too long if you find that what you’re
trying to accomplish is not working. Naivety and wonder may fadeover time through experience and deeper investigations, but it is
a wonderful place to start from. If frustration sets in, rememberthat you're supposed to be having fun when this Symbol is around.Keeping a lighthearted approach will ensure that something goodcomes from the experience. It is by innocently reaching out for life,and its wonder and beauty, that we expand ourselves and remainopen to the many possibilities in life.
Keywords: Curiosity. Infantile cravings. Fascination with illusions.Grasping at abstract ideas. Longing for things. Going for the elusive.Taking advantage of the young and innocent. Objects that cannot
be held or captured, only dreamt about. Fun found in simpleactivities. Childhood games. Communing with nature. Nakedness.Inexperienced sexuality. Splashing around.
The Caution: Being distracted by simple irrelevancies orabstractions. The frustration of not getting what one wants.
Grappling more than grasping. Always going after the “sparklingand shining” things, no matter how based in reality. Sexualtaboos regarding young people. Seeking revenge. Chasing theunattainable. Frustration and annoyance. Slippery people or
objectives. Gullibility.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 9
Chance is always powerful. Letyour hook be always cast; in thepool where you least expect it,there will be a fish.Ovid
Grown men can learn fromvery little children for thehearts of little children are pure.Therefore, the Great Spirit mayshow to them many things
which older people miss.
Black Elk
There is always one moment inchildhood when the door opensand lets the future in.Deepak Chopra
Don’t bargain for fish which are
still in the water.Indian Proverb
To climb a tree to catcha fishis talking much and doingnothing.Chinese Proverb
The cat would eat fish, but
would not wet her feet.Proverb
We have sat on the riverbankand caught catfish with pinhooks. The time has come toharpoon a whale.John Hope
Hope is nature's way of hidingtruth's nakedness.Alfred Nobel

4-10: A LARGE DIAMOND IN THE FIRST
STAGES OF THE CUTTING PROCESS
Commentary: ‘A Large Diamond in the First Stages of the CuttingProcess’ implies a person or situation that has the potential forperfection, talent, beauty and considerable wealth. The processof cutting, grinding and shaping a ‘Diamond’ takes skill, care andtime. As one continues to polish and grind away, a more refined andbeautiful object will emerge. The facets of the gem become more andmore beautiful as the “old bits of rock” are chipped off. However,
care and accuracy are needed in order to shape and mold it, or all
the work that’s been done could easily be spoilt.
Oracle: The situation facing you has probably taken a long time to
quietly develop. Something has been building up and becoming
increasingly solid and real. However, it still needs to be somehowrefined and have the rough edges cut away. Hacking away at things inone fell swoop could lead to disaster and shatter any hopes. Strivingfor perfection, however, can result in enormous rewards. This canbe some kind of “gift” or beauty that keeps getting better and better.If someone or something is a bit unformed or “unevolved”, try toremember that just a little more polishing may reveal a beautifulgem. Too much importance placed on outer looks or appearancesalone can lead to continual searches for perfection. Look to the insidewhere true beauty may reside. However, even beautiful exteriorscan have many flaws, and eventually the whole process may proveto be rather disappointing. Perhaps there’s a need to relax around
this situation - you’ve probably only seen the first stages of thefinal product. With more work comes perfection. Hard work andpressure will pay off, in the end. A useful thing to do is to imaginethe enormous beauty that’s emerging, regardless of any flaws—onthe inside or the outside.
Keywords: Coming to terms with inner worth. Emerging perfection.
Beauty that is still a bit “rough around the edges”. Naivety. Beautythat is within, even if it has flaws. Potential. Chopping and grindingawayto get to the essential. Being almost, but not completely, perfect.Reserving judgment. Self-development courses. Knowing where tostart or finish. Craftsmanship. Finding the best in everything.
The Caution: Leaving an important job unfinished. Seeing theflaws not the inherent beauty. Being afraid to take the first stab atsomething. Being overwhelmed by importance and value. Beingoverprotective or insecure. Not seeing the whole picture. Thingsunformed and incomplete. A “diamond in the rough’, someone
lacking social polish.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 10
The gem cannot be polished
without friction, nor man
perfected without trials.
Confucius
Life is a grindstone. Whether itgrinds us down or polishes usup depends on us.Thomas L. Holdcroft
He was always smoothing and
polishing himself, and in the
end he became blunt before hewas sharp.G.C. Lichtenberg
Better a diamond with a flawthan a pebble without one.Chinese Proverb
The absence of flaw in beauty isitself a flaw.Havelock Ellis
I began to have an idea of my
life, not as the slow shaping
of achievement to fit mypreconceived purposes, butas the gradual discovery and
growth of a purpose which |did
not know.Joanna Field
The hues of the opal, the light of
the diamond, are not seen if theeye is too near.Ralph Waldo Emerson
There are three things extremely
hard: steel,a diamond, and toknow one’s self.Benjamin Franklin

4-11: A CLOWN IS CARICATURING
WELL-KNOWN PERSONALITIES
Commentary: ‘A Clown Caricaturing Well-Known Personalities’symbolizes someone clowning around, doing impersonations (ortaking on other personalities), and putting on a mask. Therecan be role-playing here, where someone is putting on anarchetypal “face” and performing because one must, for somereason. The entire act can be masking what is really going onwithin them. This can end up obscuring who one truly is onthe inside. This can be because it is difficult, or compromising,to let one’s real emotions or thoughts be known. Perhaps there
are secrets or information that it’s best for others not to know.The ‘Caricaturing’ can take up time whilst things, or conditions,
change for the better.
Oracle: Laughter is often said to be the best medicine and “manythings said in jest” may be a useful thing to remember as yourelax and get things back on the right track. Perhaps someone isnot being real, using masks and play-acting in order to hide whattheir true emotions, needs or objectives are. Or, they can just beplaying the fool when the situation needs a more serious response.This can be acceptable for a while, but, sooner or later, this kindof behavior can end up being both annoying and frustrating.This can also be about the need to see things objectively or fromsomeone else’s point of view. Things may seem exaggeratedand blown out of proportion. “Chameleons”, people who actdifferently around different people, are somewhat hard to takeseriously. Are people being true to themselves in this situation?What is really behind the facial expressions and masks?
Keywords: Exaggerated responses. Wanting to entertain. Show
business. Trying to be something or someone that one’s not.Putting on a face. Comic performances. Parodies of personalities.Making fun of someone. Clowns and clowning. Life imitatingart. Always performing. Irony. Satire. Objective observance.Criticism. Laughter. Caricatures. Cartoons. Lampooning. Voiceimpressions.
The Caution: Being foolish in the face of positive potential. Tryingto cover up reality through buffoonery. Being constantly “onstage”. Living vicariously. Inauthentic behavior. Not having thecourage to display one’s true self. Putting on a face to manipulateor fool others. Irritating behavior that wears thin after a while.
Being the laughing stock. Overblown impressions. Loss of trueidentity.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 11
He’s a fool that cannot conceal
his Wisdom.Benjamin Franklin
Clown and guru are a single
identity: the satiric and sublimeside of the same higher vision oflife. Theodore Rozak
We take greater pains topersuade others that we arehappy than in endeavoring to
think so ourselves.
Confucius
There are no greater wretchesin the world than many of thosewhom people in general take to
be happy.
Seneca
I have spent more than halfa
lifetime trying to express thetragic moment.Marcel Marceau
Art must discover and revealthe beauty which prejudice andcaricature have overlaid.
Alain Locke
There is hardly any mental misery
worse than that of having ourown serious phrases, our ownrooted beliefs, caricatured by a
charlatan or a hireling.George Eliot
Now there’s some sad thingsknown to man, but ain’t too muchsadder than the tears ofa clownwhen there’s no one around.William “Smokey” Robinson

4-12: A CHINESE WOMAN NURSING A
BABY WHOSE AURA REVEALS HIM
TO BE THE REINCARNATION OF A
GREAT TEACHER
Commentary: The ‘Chinese Woman’ senses something ‘Great’in the ‘Baby’ she is ‘Nursing’. The fact that she is ‘Chinese’ issignificant, as the ‘Chinese’ have had a long tradition of seekingthe spiritual layers of life. The ‘Woman’ is sensing and seeing
something in the young person that other nannies may not. She’saware that he holds great talent and gifts for the future. His ‘Aura
Reveals Him to be the Reincarnation of a Great Teacher’. Beingable to see reverence in young people that appear to be “old” or“evolved” souls is an expression of a strong intuitive sensitivity.The ‘Woman’ sees that this child, this ‘Baby’, has a unique andspecial talent that can be of benefit to the world in some way. The‘Child’ needs to be nurtured, nourished and cared for so he canreach his full potential.
Oracle: Messages of hope for the future are coming through youngerand more vital elements. There may be an opportunity to learnimportant lessons from younger beings. The feeling that someoneis an “old soul” can be felt but can be rather hard to explain; itseems to come with a special kind of “knowing”. While taking the
time to try and make sense of it, the benefit or insight may be lost.The joy and power of young people is fleeting and may require
close attention to truly appreciate. This Symbol shows seeing the
greatness in others, and this may be speaking about you, regardless
of your age. Good nourishment and care increases everybody’sability to make the most of their potential. Nurturing and caringfor any small, but nonetheless significant, talents can allow thingsto blossom into something beyond present expectations. Are youa ‘Great Teacher?’ Do you have largely untapped talents?
Keywords: Nurturing innocence and its rewards. Reincarnation
and past lives. Charisma and presence. Channeling entities. Tibetan
mysteries. Monks and the Dalai Lama. Ancient knowledge. Childprodigies. Seeing greatness ahead of its time. Indigo children.Discovering latent talent. Visions. Holistic perceptions. Potential.
Nurses. Nannies. Finding "the one". Auras. Special people.
The Caution: Not seeing the beauty of youngsters. Being overcomewith complexity. Demanding to be recognized. Missing inherent
greatness. Under or over estimating the potential of youth. Pushy
and demanding. Precocious behaviour.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 12
Every man is a divinity indisguise.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
The promise to all men that
God may take birth within their
souls.
Dane Rudhyar
He whose face gives no lightshall never become a star.
William Blake
We hear about the birth of a
child and ask questions like,
“What did she have? How much
did it weigh?” and “Does it haveany hair?’ The AthabaskanIndian hear of a birth and ask,
“Who came?”
Lisa Delpit
Amanis a god in ruins.Ralph Waldo Emerson
Grown men can learn from verylittle children for the hearts oflittle children are pure. Therefore,the Great Spirit may show tothem many things which olderpeople miss.Black Elk
Where children are, there is thegolden age.Novalis
Where are you searching for me,
friend? Look! Here am I rightwithin you. Not in temple, nor in
mosque, not in Kaaba nor Kailas,
but here right within you am I.Kabir

4-13: A HAND, WHICH IS HELD OUT
RECEPTIVELY, IS REMARKABLE FOR
THE SUGGESTION OF CHARACTER
IN ITS PROMINENT THUMB
Commentary: ‘A Hand, Which Is Held Out Receptively’ impliesreaching out to others. The ‘Prominent Thumb’ implies a strongwill. This image infers a “handshake” of some kind. A “handshake”can bridge differences and gaps between people, bring themcloser together and also show that one doesn’t have (or shouldn’thave!) a hidden agenda. The person reaches out to others showingtheir strong ‘Character’. Palmists say the 'Thumb' shows thepredisposition of a person's future and state of health.
Oracle: Although a degree of flexibility needs to exist in thissituation, it will, inevitably, be strength of ‘Character’ and awillingness to extend one’s self to others that will enable youto succeed. Being in control of oneself and one’s environment isan effective and lasting expression of power. It is also importantto note that this Symbol is about strength of will and character,
and that being receptive does not weaken this. In fact, it is by
being receptive that we can truly be powerful and have a positiveinfluence on those around us. The ‘Prominent Thumb’ can show
a strong sense of determination and a desire to impress others.However, if this sense of strong determination does not comeaccompanied by the ability to compromise and listen, it will onlycreate the potential for problems. This can also apply to groups
of people and also to elements of your inner self. Reaching outand extending your ‘Hand’ ‘Receptively’ to others may be what’s
required. Show that you are approachable and caring, and you'llmost likely see the situation resolve itself naturally. When thetime is right you will be able to “grasp” what is needed.
Keywords: Openness and willingness to extend oneself to others.The handshake and the need for it. Being approachable and friendly.Palmistry and palm reading. Having a firm will. Introductions.Strong character. Flexible behavior. Hitchhiking.
The Caution: An aggressiveness and overbearing nature. Feelingthat one is better, or stronger, than others. The smooth handshakethat manipulates to impress one’s personality. Unbending anddominant behavior. Taking over situations regardless of whatothers want. Defensive, insecure, unsure, introverted. Blockinghuman exchanges.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 13
You can’t shake hands with aclenched fist.Indira Gandhi
It is easier to point the finger
than to offer a helping hand.Anon
The lonely one offers his handtoo quickly to whomever heencounters.
Friedrich Nietzsche
The world can only be
grasped by action, not bycontemplation. The hand is thecutting edge of the mind.Jacob Bronowski
Nothing up my sleeve!Magician's Saying
Spiritual love is a positionof standing with one handextended into the universe
and one hand extended into
the world, letting ourselves bea conduit for passing energy.Christina Baldwin
I hate the giving ofthehand unless the whole manaccompanies it.Ralph Waldo Emerson
The fingers must be educated,the thumb is born knowing.Marc Chagall
If my hands are fully occupiedin holding onto something, |can neither give nor receive.Dorothee Solle

4-14: A VERY OLD MAN FACING A VAST
DARK SPACE TO THE NORTHEAST
Commentary: ‘A Very Old Man’ is ‘Facing a Vast Dark Space to theNortheast’. He may be feeling old, lost and in need of guidance.
Washington DC, the capital of America, from the majority of thecountry is in the ‘Northeast’. This is the Symbol of America’sSun sign, the 4th July. It speaks of looking towards that place.This is also the degree of the fixed star Sirius, the star many have
looked to for spiritual direction. The ‘Vast Dark Space’ may feellike alien or foreign territory. The ‘Very Old Man’ looks to the‘Northeast’ for guidance; perhaps he is looking at a particularstar or merely “staring into a void”. Can he find salvation there?answers?—or does he feel lost and deserted? People overwhelmedby “big brother”, commercialism and the battle to “keep up” canfeel ‘Old’ in some way. However, direction may be found in this‘Vast Dark Space’.
Oracle: Guidance may be needed, but it can be hard to come by;faith may be the only light to guide you through. As we grow and
age, we can choose to become more enlightened, with a greaterability to see spiritual truth. However, you could be feeling thateven faith is difficult to keep hold of at the moment. You may feellet down by people—friends, family, or lovers, right through toauthorities or the government. There needs to be both trust andcourage that one’s inner wisdom is in touch with some highertruth. We need this especially when we don’t know where we'regoing and feel like we have to take things one day at a time.Once we have completed our journey in this life, there is stillthe mystery of the next life. Venturing into the unknown whenyou think you have seen it all can be a reminder of the thrill of
life. Take some time to look to to the sky at night; this may bring
encouragement and some kind of realization or fulfillment.
Keywords: American Indians and other native peoples that havebeen left in the dark. Losing faith in the future. The dying outof cultures or languages. Washington DC. Staring into a void.
Blindness. Searching for answers. Sirtus—the Dog Star. Magneticshifts. Compass directions. Stargazing. Navigation. Faith. Theearth’s poles. Astronomy. Vast dark arenas. Wisdom that comeswith age. Feeling old before one's time. Seeking purpose anddirection.
The Caution: Seeing nothing. A lack of purpose. Abandonment,rejection, loss and darkness. The exploitation and abandonmentof native people. Myopia. Voids. Emptiness.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 14
Every country has the
government it deserves.
Joseph Marie de Maistre
A manis avery small thing,andthe night is very large and full
of wonders.Lord Dunsany
We are not afraid to entrust
the American people withunpleasant facts, foreignideas, alien philosophies, andcompetitive values. For a nationthat is afraid to let its peoplejudge the truth and falsehoodin an open market is a nationthat is afraid of its people.
J. F. Kennedy
The greatest thing in the worldisnot so much where we standas in what direction we aremoving.
Goethe
I never saw a man who lookedwith such a wistful eye uponthat little tent of blue whichprisoners call the sky.Oscar Wilde
Interestingly, according tomodern astronomers, space isfinite. This is a very comfortingthought—particularly for peoplewho can never remember wherethey have left things.Woody Allen
There’s none so blind as thosewho won't see.Old Saying

4-15: A GROUP OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE
OVEREATEN AND ENJOYED IT
Commentary: ‘A Group of People Who Have Overeaten andEnjoyed It’ is an image of people consuming to their fill andhaving a good time of it. It seems they had a big appetite andhave over indulged themselves, and are now feeling satisfied.They have taken take time out to satisfy their hunger and ‘Enjoy’the leisure of catching up with what’s going on with others.There is a certain measure of pleasure and satisfaction, but it isprobably only temporary, and they may need to return to work.This can be difficult, as overeating can lead to dulled sensesand an inability to make intelligent decisions. People become
energetically bound up in digesting what they’ve “consumed”,
while the body is preoccupied with handling the load. This can
make the mind and body slow and, sometimes, lazy. This Symbolcan picture enjoying “consuming” anything, not only “eating.”They probably enjoy many of the good things in life.
Oracle: It may be that you, or someone else, have overindulgedin material objects or success. For now, enjoy your goodfortune. Beware, however, as sometimes “feeding frenzies” canturn into issues that need to be sorted out later. Problems canbe experienced through overspending, overeating, putting on
weight, etc. Constantly overeating or overspending in an attemptto feel better can lead to issues of self-worth, greed and debt.There is possibly a need to curb this indulging. Realize whenit’s time to return to work, and to be productive instead of justswallowing, or “consuming” more and more. In fact, there maybe a need for “tightening the belt”. Commodities, like food, etc.,may run short now due to extravagance or excess. Remember tosay Grace in thanks for the good fortune you have.
Keywords: Consumerism. Communal cohesion through indulging
in the senses. Satisfied hunger. Commercialism and longing toown things. Eating disorders. The right of everyone to enjoy foodand nourishment. Big business. Success. Enjoying “the good life”.Having plenty. Abundance. Temporary fulfillment.
The Caution: Self-indulgence through the senses. The “haves”and the “have-nots”. People going without so that others canhave more. Monopolization. Bloating. Feeling that one deserves
everything on a platter. Overweight. Bad nourishment. Eatingbinges. Indigestion. Obsession with ownership. Deprivation.
Exploiting resources. Overspending. Gluttony.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 15
Appetite comes with eating;the more one has, the more one
would have.
French Proverb
One weakness of our ageis our apparent inability todistinguish our needs from ourgreeds.
Don Robinson
A fool bolts pleasure, thencomplains of moral indigestion.
Minna Thomas Antrim
Life is short. Live it up.Nikita Khrushchev
Isaw few die of hunger; ofeating, a hundred thousand.
Benjamin Franklin
Never eat anything at onesitting that you can't lift.Miss Piggy, Muppet character
Some people wantedchampagne and caviar whenthey should have had beer andhot dogs.
Dwight D. Eisenhower
Gluttony is not a secret vice.Orson Wells
Indiscriminate study bloats themind.D. Sutten
Never eat anything bigger thanyour head.Kliban

4-16: A MAN STUDYING A MANDALA IN FRONT OF HIM, WITH THE HELP OF A VERY ANCIENT BOOK
Commentary: The Symbol ‘A Man Studying a Mandala in Frontof Him’ shows someone intent on gaining insight and meaningthrough ‘Study’. He is ‘Studying’ a ‘Mandala’ which may be in theform of a picture, design or structure. This can be anything froman astrology chart, to an architectural drawing to a sacred image,etc. The ‘Mandala’ is often a collection of ideas and possibilities,experiences and lessons, and history and mythology. These things
can be presented as a kind of tapestry. He is ‘Studying’ this “With
the Help of a Very Ancient Book’; it has clues and answers fromages past. Looking to the “secret mysteries” can reveal answersto life’s questions, and how best to proceed.
Oracle: You may be attempting to understand what these “secretmysteries”, mentioned above, may mean in the current contextand applying it to the relevance of today. You may be puzzled by
the deeper meanings of the subject you're ‘Studying’ or tryingto unravel. Reverting to traditional answers is not always easy
in the present day. The key to deciphering these mysteries is in
traditional knowledge and wisdom. Adopting a plan or a strategyis a good idea, as is following “the rules of the book”. With devices
like the Internet and television, the quicker options are usuallychosen. These methods have their merits, but they can beenhanced further when teamed up with the older, more tried andtrue answers. Perhaps you feel “boxed in” by your situation. Youmust seek what is already known in order to understand what’shappening. If a plan is adopted, make sure it is based on sound
principles and everything should work out. Patience, research
and respect for the past are all vital elements here. A teacher is
likely to appear. Much will be learnt and revealed.
Keywords: Concentration. Overcoming obstacles by gaining
control of one’s inner and outer life. Architecture and strategicplanning. Lessons to be learnt from history. Astrology,
numerology, tarot. Systems of thought that are laid out. Maps.The rules of warfare—anything with a strategy. Drawing strengthand inspiration from squares and circles. Inward attention.Mandalas.
The Caution: Ignoring the old wisdom for modern rationalsystems. Lack of imagination. Going into a situation unorganized
and unplanned. Trying to gain the better of others by outstrategizing them. Not wanting to put in the work.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 16
We are called to be architects
of the future, not its victims.Buckminster Fuller
Can't nothing make your life
work ifyou ain’t the architect.
Terry McMillan
I have an existential map; it has
“you are here” written all over it.
Steven Wright
God is in the details. LudwigMies van der Rohe
Oh well, back to the drawingboard.Old saying
But how shall I get ideas?Keep your wits open! Observe!Observe! Study! Study! But
above all, Think! Think! And
when a noble image is indeliblyimpressed upon the mind—Act!Orison Swett Marden
A structure becomes
architectural, and notsculptural, when its elements nolonger have their justification in
nature.Guillaume Apollinaire
All my best thoughts werestolen by the ancients.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Ancient laws remain in forcelong after the people have the
power to change them.Aristotle

4-17: THE SEED GROWS INTO
KNOWLEDGE AND LIFE
Commentary: ‘The Seed Grows Into Knowledge and Life’. The_ process of the germination of the ‘Seed’ is slow and progressive,
and must start from the very beginning. This ‘Seed’ may be anidea, a relationship, a process, a job or a course of study, etc.From the germination of the ‘Seed’ comes ‘Knowledge and
Life’. Remember the maxim: Think a thought and sow a seed;sow a seed and do a deed. Do a deed, create a habit; create alifestyle.
Oracle: The important thing to realize is that something ofvalue has the opportunity to develop, but will need nurturing,attention, fertilization, care and hope. Things grow and, withtime and nourishment, flourish, eventually providing further
‘Seeds’ for the future. However, at first, you may feel as thoughyou are not growing or developing properly, or fast enough.Maybe there is dissatisfaction regarding your perceived progress.Perhaps you feel that everything will take too long if you start atthe beginning. There are no shortcuts with nature—things haveto grow at their own pace and in their own time. It is importantto start small and let things develop from there. Even if you feel as
though there is no time to “baby” along the situation, in the long
run it will be for the best. Sacrifices may be necessary to ensurethe development is complete. This can indicate pregnancy or theinception of a new idea. In a broader context, there may emerge
a whole new and inspiring approach to, or participation in life. Itcould eventually lead to the birth or the growth of something. Ahobby or interest could turn into a money earning project. Thetime is fertile for the process of growth to begin.
Keywords: Small and careful beginnings leading to a beautiful
flowering. Seeding things. New ideas bringing fulfillment.Pregnancy, childbirth and growing up. The growth ofknowledge. Embryonic cells. Giving and receiving lessons. The
urge to grow. Germination. Reaching towards light. Fertilization.
Nourishment. Tender care. Genetic engineering. Transmutations.
Teachers and students. The tree of knowledge. The Kabbalah.Enjoying each step of the process.
The Caution: Rushing and missing vital parts. Arrogance abouthow much one knows. Being afraid to start a project becauseof time constraints. Not giving small things the reverence theydeserve. Grabbing the fast dollar. Things that get out of hand.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 17
The true purpose of education isto cherish and unfold the seedof immortality already sownwithin us; to develop, to their
fullest extent, the capacities of
every kind with which the Godwho made us has endowed us.
Anna Simpson
The seed of God is in us.Givenan intelligent and hard working
farmer, it will thrive and growup to God, whose seed it is; andaccordingly its fruits will beGod-nature, Pear seeds growinto pear trees, nut seeds intonut trees, and God seed into
God.
Emailer Elkhart
Is life worth living? This is a
question for an embryo, not foraman.Samuel Butler
With every deed you are sowinga seed, though the harvest youmay not see.Ella Wheeler Wilcox
We can see a thousand miraclesaround us every day. What ismore supernatural than an eggyolk turning into a chicken?
Rutherford Platt
In creating, the only hard thingis to begin:a grass blade’s noeasier to make than an oak.James Russell Lowell

4-18: A HEN IS SCRATCHING FOR HER CHICKS
Commentary: ‘A Hen is Scratching For Her Chicks’. The essentialneed for nourishment must be satisfied in order to proceed in
life. There is no guarantee that she will find food where she is‘Scratching’, but a wise “mother” knows where nourishment is
likely to be found. It is for her offspring, for herself or for othersthat she is searching and ‘Scratching’ for. ‘Scratching’ the groundis the instinctive, traditional way that ‘A Hen’ looks for food. For
a mother ‘Hen’ this process has an inherent element of sacrifice,or at the least concern for others ahead of her own needs.
Oracle: This Symbol is about Motherhood and its inherentresponsibilities. This Symbol is encouraging you to take action
to find nourishment, protection and the other things necessary
for the well being of both yourself and those in your care. It isnot just about being caring and vigilant, it also means gettingdown to business and finding what is needed for those less ablethan yourself, regardless of how difficult or time consuming itmay be. This is also showing that there are those around who aredependent on others to provide nourishment. When those you
care about have what they need you will have the opportunity tolook after yourself. However, you may be the mother hen, or youmay be the ‘Chick’. This nourishment can mean both the literal,i.e. food, and the symbolic, spiritual caring and guidance. You
are being asked to understand and accept the responsibilities ofcaring for and looking after others. If you are in the position tonurture, however, be cautious not to be overprotective or fussyover your brood.
Keywords: Searching for sustenance. Being devoted to nurturing
small beginnings. Concern for the essential, small details.Repetitive cycles of things that have to be done. Being the“breadwinner”. Doing one’s duty. Being loaded with responsibility.Children. Progeny. Feeding others. Catering. Seeding ideas. Latch-Key children. Working long hours.
The Caution: Pointless searching where there is no nourishment.Fussing too much. Not letting people grow up. Neglecting to
nourish those who need it. Acting like a mother hen. No life of one’sown. Becoming a martyr for others. Self-sacrifice. ‘Scratching’ fortiny rewards. Codependence. Tiring responsibilities. Scratchingand picking. Paying the bills for others. Expecting to be looked
after.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 18
The heart is the householddivinity which, discharging itsfunction, nourishes, cherishes,quickens the whole body, andis indeed the foundation of life,the source of all action.William Harvey
An atmosphere of trust, loveand humor can nourishextraordinary human capacity.
One key is authenticity: parentsacting as people, not as roles.Marilyn Ferguson
My father had always said there
are four things a child needs:plenty of love, nourishing food,
regular sleep, and lots of soapand water. After that, what heneeds most is some intelligentneglect.
Ivy Baker Priest
Sometimes you struggle sohard to feed your family one
way; you forget to feed themthe other way, with spiritualnourishment. Everybody needs
that.James Brown
A mother never realizes that her
children are no longer children.James Agee
To nourish children and raise
them against odds is in anytime, any place, more valuablethan to fix bolts in cars or
design nuclear weapons.Marilyn French

4-19: A FRAGILE MISS, REPRESENTATIVE
OF PROUD OLD BLOOD, IS WED INA
MARRIAGE CEREMONY BY A PRIEST
TO AN EAGER YOUTH OF THE NEW
ORDER
Commentary: ‘A Fragile Miss, Representative of Proud Old Blood,is Wed ina Marriage Ceremony by a Priest to an Eager Youth of
the New Order.’ The ‘Fragility’ and respectability of the past isenergized with the ‘Eagerness’ of the new. The two people marry,even though they come from quite different backgrounds. The‘Old’ and conservative is “married” to the ‘New’ and ‘Eager’.
Oracle: A ‘Marriage’ of any kind can bring people together andproduce wonderful things as a result. There comes a time whenthe ‘Old’ ways, ideas or behaviors need to be renewed with
fresh ‘Blood’. But the old ways should not be merely replaced by
updated methods, but rather blended to attain the best of both
worlds. The important thing is what this union can produce.This is the birth of something with the potential for change, newideas and new growth. There may be some problems in the earlystages, as others may object to this ‘Marriage’. The ‘Eager Youth’may not immediately fit the stereotype of the ‘Fragile Miss” family.Sometimes there’s the fear of upsetting family by introducing newpeople or even new ideas. Every type of ‘Marriage’ needs to gothrough its ups and downs. Bridging generation gaps, alteringprejudices, updating ‘Old’ ideas and breaking social rules can
come as a result of any successful union. Simple expressions ofour heart and mind may be acknowledged in ritual performances
or a ‘Ceremony’ of some kind. This may require a sanctification,or blessing, from a higher power or authority.
Keywords: Wedding ceremonies. Sanctified unity. Expressions
of loyalty and allegiance. Making sacred vows. Commitmentto a person or project. New ventures involving a lowering of
accepted standards. Breaking social norms. Integration of heartand mind. Bridging generation gaps. Marriage guidance. Contractssigned and honored. Handclaspings. Hatch, match and dispatchceremonies. Celebrants.
The Caution: Rigidly following established rules at the expenseof new ways that may have greater personal relevance. Forcingpeople to come together. Bondage to social expectations.Arranged marriages. Taking risks with partners. Conforming tothe expectations of the others.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 19
Tis not the many oaths thatmake the truth; But the plainsingle vow, thatisvow true.William Shakespeare
I dreamed of a wedding of
elaborate elegance; a churchfilled with flowers and friends. I asked him what kind of weddinghe wished for; he said one thatwould make me his wife.Anon
Marriage is our last, best chanceto grow up.Joseph Barth
The curse which lies upon
marriage is that too often the
individuals are joined in their
weakness rather than in theirstrength—each asking from theother instead of finding pleasurein giving.Simone de Beauvoir
MARRIAGE, n. The state orcondition of a community
consisting of a master,amistress, and two slaves, makingin all, two,Ambrose Bierce
Marriage is a great institution,but I'm not ready for aninstitution.Mae West
A good marriage is like a good
trade. Each thinks he got thebetter deal.Ivern Ball

4-20: VENETIAN GONDOLIERS INA
SERENADE
Commentary: ‘Venetian Gondoliers in a Serenade’ is a Symbolthat speaks of the ideals of romantic fantasy. Although it cansometimes sound like an old cliché, the ‘Gondoliers Serenading’is the sort of fantasy or special event that many people long foror desire. To be pampered, cared for and transported to a placeof romance can be just what is needed, though there may be aneed for caution if the romance is really just a fairytale.
Oracle: This Symbol encourages the breaking away from anyrestriction of expectation and letting yourself float on the
pleasure of romance. Someone may be a little frustrated or
bored, and looking to find ways to satisfy their emotional needs.Although this is not the time for seriousness, don’t be fooled byany insincere charades. You may need to develop trust in those
around you to be able to surrender to your feelings spontaneously.If the circumstances are right, surrendering to romance shouldbe enjoyed to the hilt. Don’t let doubts get in the way of loveor passion; but, do be cautious that you’re not being used forsomeone’s imaginary or idealistic life. Look to see if you are
ignoring the truth of a relationship in order to satisfy someoneelse’s needs. Read between the lines of what’s truly being said,or the emotions that are conveyed. Look for anything misleadingor overblown. Someone may try to convince others of how good
they are, or compete with others for love. Be wary of reacting to
others who have recently come into the picture, especially thosethat are vying for affections. Those working hard at winningothers over can lead to not being taken seriously. In the end,
people get found out for who they really are. Seek out honesty
and truth and love will fill your life.
Keywords: Romantic fantasy. Singing and music. Performance.Public speaking. Impressing people with joy, romance, fun andthe wonder of life. Venusian displays. Issues of the truth. Ease ofcommunicating. Working to win people over. Appealing to thebeloved. Elegance. Floating on the emotions. Festive atmospheres.
Nostalgia. Boats. Water.
The Caution: Insincere charades. Retreating into one’s self. Sayingwhatever it takes to get what one wants. Superficial displays.The delusion of being beyond criticism. Emotional manipulation.
Sucking up to others. Misplaced trust. Competing for affectionsor attention. Losing one’s self.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 20
If music be the food of life, playon.William Shakespeare
Anything that is too stupid to
be spoken is sung.
Voltaire
Love is like a violin; the music
may stop now and then, butthe strings will remain forever.Anon
The French are true romantics.They feel the only differencebetween a man of forty and
one of seventy is thirty years ofexperience.Maurice Chevalier
Ifyou describe things as
better than they are, you are
considered to be a romantic; if
you describe things as worsethan they are, you will be calleda realist;and ifyou describethings exactly as they are, youwill be thought of as a satirist.
Quentin Crisp
Beware of over-great pleasurein being popular or even
beloved.Margaret Fuller
He must have a truly romanticnature, for he weeps when thereis nothing at all to weep about.Oscar Wilde

4-21: A PRIMA DONNA SINGING
Commentary: ‘A Prima Donna’ is the principal female singer
in an opera. The expression ‘Prima Donna’ is Italian for “firstlady”. This can be a double-edged image. The positive realityof the ‘Prima Donna’ is someone whose talents allow, or cause,them to stand out from the crowd. Here the ‘Prima Donna’ ispictured ‘Singing’, which means that her talent is being sharedand hopefully enjoyed by all. Her voice, song and words resonatewith many and bring messages from the stories or the mythsof our lives and society. On a more negative level, the ‘Prima
Donna’ can be the fussy, demanding type who expects special
and unreasonable consideration for her talents or her positionin society. Many adore such people, while others can become
completely bored, especially if the ‘Prima Donna’ doesn’t know
how or when to stop “performing”.
Oracle: This Symbol can indicate that someone’s abilities, talentsor limits will be tested. To fully win in this situation, one mustopen up their heart and let go of inhibitions, while others should
drop their judgments. This will please some that are listening
and allow people to feel fulfilled. Even where there are a lot of
voices, there will be one that will be most listened to. Is this yourvoice or someone else’s? Sometimes the ‘Prima-Donna’ demands
more attention than they truly deserve. Having a loud voice canbe annoying and create an imbalance that destroys the harmonyor balance of the group. However, lifting your voice to convey
messages that are powerful and moving can be very rewarding.The thing to remember is that we all have talent that distinguishesus from others in some way. Sometimes it is not so obvious, but
it is within us all in some description.
Keywords: Powerful voice. Emotional dramatizations. Talent.Taking center stage. Messages that need to be heard for socialreasons. Playing out the myths of society. Makeup, hairstyles,wigs and costumes. Feeling important and special. Singing andperforming. Opera and drama. Fame and fortune. Charisma andpresence. Commanding attention. Having control and good
timing. Flowers or brickbats. Years and years of training orimprovising on the spot.
The Caution: Overplaying one’s role. Displaying noisily. Driving
people to distraction. Refusing to keep quiet. Demanding to beheard. Wanting everyone to listen. Overreacting. Throwingtantrums. Not knowing when to stop. Passions worn on thesleeve. Showing off.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 21
We respond to a drama to thatextent to which it corresponds
to our dream life,
David Mamet
A singer starts by having hisinstrument as a gift from God
... When you have been givensome thing ina moment ofgrace; it is sacrilegious to begreedy.Marian Anderson
Success can make you go oneof two ways. It can make youa prima donna—orit cansmooth the edges, take awaythe insecurities and let the nice
things come out.
Barbara Walters
My voice has been raised notonly in song, but to make the
big world outside through me,understand something of thespirit of my beloved country.
Dame Nellie Melba
I'm not a major talent; I'ma
product of the people.
Garth Brooks
Whenever you think that you
are getting too big for thepeople around you, rememberall that separates you from theguy sitting next to you is alittlepiece of gristle in your throat.
Marilyn Horne

4-22: A YOUNG WOMAN AWITING A SAILBOAT
Commentary: ‘A Young Woman’ is seen ‘Awaiting a Sailboat’. She hashopes in mind that something special will either arrive or happen in
some way. There is a strong sense that some ideal she’s hoping for will
come to her if she waits long enough. Often there is delight in looking
forward to a particular pleasure or event. However, sometimes itfeels like one’s “ship” will never come in. The “Young Woman’ can
be left waiting for a long time. She may miss other aspects of her lifeby not paying attention to what’s readily available. Viewed positively,the ‘Waiting’ can lead to a pleasurable anticipation of what, or who,may arrive. Sometimes we actually vicariously enjoy it in advance,
dreaming of what rewards may come.
Oracle: You may need to be patient, and confident that what youwant will come to you. However, there is a warning not to becomedependent on an unreliable outcome. Also, if you are constantlylooking out, then you are probably not spending enough time lookingback or inwardly at the things you already possess or have ready
access to. People dream of the perfect partner suddenly appearing, or
the big win in the lottery that will rescue them from their problemsor dull lives. The outcome may prove to be less than imagined.Often, the more we look forward to something, the less we enjoy
it when it actually arrives. Bearing that in mind, we should draw toourselves the things we truly desire through positive affirmationsand a determined focus on a desired outcome. Clean the barnaclesoff your 'Sailboat' - the remnants of the past - so that new life, loveand spirit can come to you. It is the level of confidence that supportsour ‘Waiting’ that can determine the success of the outcome. Whenthe tide changes, your “ship” may very well come in. Make sure youare rowing your own boat and steering your own course.
Keywords: Waiting for one’s ship to come in. Escapist fantasies
that rob everyday life. Travel and the longing for escape. Livingin the future vs. being in the here and now. Nervous anticipation.Leaving things to chance. Believing that things will come eventually.Opportunism. Rocking someone’s boat. Expectant waiting. Constant
looking to the horizon. Boats. Tides. Creating a safe harbor.
The Caution: The bubble bursting. Waiting for Mr. or Ms “perfect”.Ignoring what’s readily available. Longing for that which may nevercome. Missing opportunities. Always looking over one’s shoulder,seeking better things. Boredom with one’s life. Escapism. Possibilitiesthat are never “good enough”. Pining for the unattainable. Not
taking life on. Delusions of grandeur. Things always being better tomorrow.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 22
We love to expect, and
when expectation is eitherdisappointed or gratified, we
want to be again expecting.Samuel Johnson
The real voyage of discoveryconsists not in seeking newlandscapes, but in having neweyes.Marcel Proust
You can’t cross the sea merely
by standing and staring at the
water. Don’t let yourself indulgein vain wishes.Rabindranath Tagore
How much of human life is lostin waiting.Ralph Waldo Emerson
If your ship doesn’t come in,swim out to it!Jonathan Winters
Fortune brings in some boatsthat are not steered.William Shakespeare
Every ship is a romantic object,
except that which we sail in.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Everything you wantis outthere waiting for you to ask.
Everything you want also wantsyou. But you have to take actionto get it.Jack Canfield

4-23: THE MEETING OF A STUDY GROUP
OR LITERARY SOCIETY
Commentary: ‘A Study Group’ or a ‘Literary Society’ pictures
people coming together to share opinions and ideas. The ‘Society’
can symbolize any situation where people get together to discussand share their thoughts; from a board or committee meetingto a gathering of people with common goals or interests. Withmodern communications, such as the Internet and large-scalepublishing, efforts can reach right out to the masses and thecollective. Finding the best way to analyze, direct or describesomething creates better understanding for others.
Oracle: Situations or creative ideas can be given an objective,critical analysis or review in order to see what’s really going on
and what can be shared with others. However, the ‘Meetings’ arebest served in the search for greater meaning in order to enrichpeople, the group or the populace. There may be the need to
have patience and an “ear” for what the whole ‘Group’ has to
say, instead of allowing people to just push their own beliefs,desires or agenda. This being said, however, individuals need to
have the opportunity to have their visions and thoughts aired.They can hold useful, creative or new ideas, which may promotebetter outcomes. If you, or someone else, have something to say,say it. People will listen, even if some act as though they’re not
really interested. Is everyone having their say, in this situationor are some merely “hogging the floor”? Who’s in charge here?Are they doing the job honestly and sharing with others? Is this
‘Meeting’ being run with everyone considered on an equal basis?Be careful that these ‘Meetings’ don’t turn out to be all talk and
no action. What is the agenda?
Keywords: Shared higher knowledge. Print media, libraries.The written word. Committees. The movie Dead Poet’s Society.
Work shopping and brainstorming. Critics and criticism. Diaries,
records and minutes of meetings. Newspapers and news media.
Consulting with learned people. Talkback radio. Sharing beliefs
and ideas. The mirrors of society. Discussions. Letters to theeditor. The meeting of the minds. Reviews.
The Caution: Falsifying of ideas. Propaganda spread by the media.Intellectual smugness. Excluding anything non-establishment.Chatting instead of doing. Intellectual bickering. Analyzing everypiece of information until it loses its inherent message. Being toldonly what’s safe to reveal. Disinformation.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 23
Great minds discuss ideas;average minds discuss events;small minds discuss people.
Eleanor Roosevelt
Let me never fall into the vulgarmistake of dreaming that!
am persecuted whenever 1am
contradicted.Ralph Waldo Emerson
Insanity in individuals is
something rare—but in groups,parties, nations and epochs, it isthe rule.
Friedrich Nietzsche
Half of the American people
never read a newspaper. Half
never voted for President. One
hopes it is the same half.
Gore Vidal
Those who write clearly havereaders; those who writeobscurely have commentators.Albert Camus
The well bred contradict otherpeople. The wise contradictthemselves.
Oscar Wilde
From the moment! picked yourbook up until I laid it down!was convulsed with laughter.Someday I intend reading it.
Groucho Marx
A good review from the critics isjust another stay of execution.Dustin Hoffman

4-24: AWOMAN AND TWO MEN (ORA
MAN AND TWO WOMEN) CAST
AWAY ON A SMALL ISLAND
Commentary: ‘A Woman and Two Men (or a Man and TwoWomen) Cast Away On a Small Island’ is an image of people
being or living in close proximity. They are ‘Castaways’ and are
somehow “stuck” with one another for the time being. They couldbe thrown together by circumstances or by choice. Regardless,being on a ‘Small Island’ leaves no way of concealing behavior
or keeping secrets and things get found out, sooner or later. Itcan reflect situations that are out of balance with the normal
harmony of relationships. Things need to be dealt with carefullyand sensitively.
Oracle: The people seen here may be “locked-in” to some situation,
environment or relationship. Their desires may be vacillating from
one extreme to the other. There could be a desire to get awayfrom those who have conflicting views or are trying to confusethings. There may be uncomfortable and even impossible choicesto be made. At this time, however, removing one’s self from thesituation may not be possible. The value of this experience is to
attempt to create new understandings and standards in order
to turn the imbalance to everyone’s advantage in whatever way
possible. It may be impossible, but it is necessary to try. This
Symbol can also reflect personality issues and confusions that are
happening on an inner level. Symptoms of ill health, unhappiness,
mood swings and temper tantrums can be an indication of an
inner battle. This may be because of a change in relationships,
beliefs or ideals. It may be a hidden memory or inner childhoodissue that is rising to the surface and now manifesting in splitrelationships or similar problems. Take some care to work with
the issue, as battling it out can lead to problems. Working out
each person’s position in the situation will help you to decipherwhat’s really going on and who belongs with who.
Keywords: Feelings of being fenced in. Too little room to move.Lack of privacy. Relationship triangles. Claustrophobia. Isolation.
Love affairs. Too many people or having no one. Having to
schedule people’s needs. Competition and rivalry. Polygamy.
The Caution: Not seeing the whole picture. Fighting over one’s“territory”. The specter of “someone else”. Jealousy. Sexual
infidelity. Misleading relationships. Being shut out of relationship.Fickleness. Not being able to choose. Having too many peopleto consider.
What does this SYMBOL say to you? 
Cancer 24
Paradise is always where lovedwells.
Richter
Any one must see at a glancethat if men and women marry
those whom they do not love,
they must love those whomthey do not marry.
Harriet Martineau
Successful marriage is always a
triangle:a man,a woman, andGod.
Cecil Myers
There were three of us inour marriage, so it was a bitcrowded.Diana, Princess of Wales
Don't look now, but there’s onetoo many in this room and 1
think it’s you.Groucho Marx
Of all human powers operating
in the affairs of mankind,none is greater than that ofcompetition.Henry Clay
Do not put your spoon into thepot that does not boil for you.Romanian Proverb
In married life, three is companyand two none.
Oscar Wilde

4-25: A LEADER OF MEN WRAPPED IN AN
INVISIBLE CLOAK OF POWER
Commentary: ‘A Leader of Men Wrapped in an invisible Cloak of
Power’ is an image of someone who has the charisma, leadership
or position that implies great authority and responsibility. Oftenthese things need to be handled carefully, having a lot of ‘Power’can lead to corruption and abuse of privileges. As this pictures a
‘Leader of Men’, this person must work for the good of the whole
- not purely for personal advantage.
Oracle: There comes a time for most of us when we have to riseto the occasion as someone in charge or as a decision maker.Whatever the situation, there is a need to accept that you, or
someone else, has this level of ‘Power’, and this must be usedand wielded wisely. You have an unavoidable obligation to
accept responsibility and respond rationally. It may be that youhave not sought out this ‘Power’ or position of ‘Leadership’. Itcan feel as though it has been thrust on you, but you have been
placed in this position and you need to understand and accept
the consequences. This Symbol can also mean the abdication orgiving away of your power to others - people who seem strongeror more in charge than yourself. The responsibility of it can berefused and handed on. Alternatively, if someone is abusingtheir authority, others can be roused to remove this ‘Cloak’ or“mantle”, thereby stripping them of their authority or control.Positively, the ‘Invisible Cloak of Power’ can be something thatlands in one’s lap, and must be responded to with responsibilityand acceptance. We can all be our own “gurus’—taking on ourown sense of strength and ability. Sometimes we can find this outthrough the agency of someone else. Don’t wait for somebodyto tell you of your ability—believe in your ‘Power’ and act on it.
Wearing a special shawl or ‘Cloak’ can work wonders to attractpower and energy.
Keywords: Leadership and its honors and responsibilities.Powerful descent of energies taking over one’s being. Feeling
invincible—one can do nothing wrong. Hugging and beinghugged. Sore shoulders. Shawls and cloaks that empower or cover-up. Gurus. Quiet, unassuming strength. Charisma, strength andpresence. Beautiful coats. Furs. Huge personalities.
The Caution: Shows of superiority. Presuming oneself to be morethan one is. Megalomania. Abuse of power. Not owning one’smagnificence. Having the weight of the world on your shoulders.People on power trips. Lording it over others. Being pushy.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 25
Great hearts steadily sendforth the secret forces thatincessantly draw great events.Ralph Waldo Emerson
Leadership is practiced not somuch in words as in attitudeand in actions.
Harold S.Geneen
A leader is best when people
barely know he exists.Witter Bynner
Nearly all men can standadversity, but ifyou want totest aman’s character, give himpower.Abraham Lincoln
A person wrapped up in himselfmakes a small package.
Harry Emerson Fosdick
It is better to be violent, if thereis violence in our hearts, thanto put on the cloak of non-violence to cover impotence.Mahatma Gandhi
Aman who lives right, and is
right, has more power in hissilence than another has by hiswords.Phillips Brooks
All I want is a warm bed and a kind word,and unlimited power.Ashleigh Brilliant

4-26: GUESTS ARE READING IN THE LIBRARY OF A LUXURIOUS HOME
Commentary: The Symbol ‘Guests are Reading in the Library ofaLuxurious Home’ pictures people taking an opportunity to relaxand enjoy themselves in comfortable surroundings. It is a time tocatch up on the thoughts of others, whether by reading books,
magazines, newspapers or having quiet moments in conversationwith people without feeling any pressure to return to work. If onefeels at home in this situation, there will be feelings of release andrelaxation. There is the opportunity to do some reading, a few
crossword puzzles, perhaps some researching or learning, etc.There does, however, need to be caution against self-indulgence,or just sitting around as this could lead to laziness and a lack ofmotivation to get going with life. The ‘Luxurious Home’ illustratesthe fact that the opportunity to take time out to read, or learn isreally a ‘Luxury’ for many people.
Oracle: If you feel that everything is too confusing andcomplicated, you should go somewhere that allows for quiet times
and informed reflection. We all lead busy lives, but finding time for‘Reading’ or other leisure activities should not have to be difficult.
Remember that life consists of more than work. Play as muchas you can - don’t live life dreading the weekdays and longingfor weekends. Nowadays, you don’t even have to leave home toenjoy others and exchange thoughts; the Internet can bring bothpeople and huge libraries of information, saving you the effort ofphysically going out and searching for them. We are able to haveaccess to a wide range of information, comment and imaginationwithout the restrictions of having to be wealthy—both in theluxury of time and the availability of valuable material.Don't
cut yourself off from other people, though, as this could lead
to loneliness.
Keywords: Sharing of thoughts and ideas in an environment ofsocial privilege. Social protocol that says what one should be
digesting, emotionally, intellectually or physically. Libraries.Hotel reading rooms. Chatting quietly. Books, magazines. Quiet,knowing atmosphere. Learning and sharing ideas. Having friendsover. Relaxing. Taking time off. Study groups.
The Caution: Relating on a superficial level or not being able torelate at all because of social expectations. Being told to “keepquiet”. Not saying what one really feels. Focusing on the mind, notthe heart. Not being invited to the inner circle. Special privilegesfor the few.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 26
A house is not ahome unless
it contains food and fire forthe mind as well as the body.Margaret Fuller
A room without books is like abody without a soul.Marcus T. Cicero
The man who does not readgood books has no advantageover the man who can’t readthem.Mark Twain
Never lend books, for no one everreturns them.The only books |
have in my library are books thatother folks have lent me.
Anatole France
You don't have to burn booksto destroy a culture. Just get
people to stop reading them.
Ray Douglas Bradbury
Books like friends should be fewand well chosen.Joineriana
War and Peace must wait for
the leisure of retirement, whichnever really comes: meanwhileit helps to furnish the living
room. Blockbusting fiction is
bought as furniture.Anthony Burgess
The richest minds need notlarge libraries.Amos Bronson Alcott

4-27: AVIOLENT STORM IN A
RESIDENTIAL CANYON FILLED WITH
VALUABLE HOMES
Commentary: ‘A Violent Storm in a Canyon Filled With Valuable
Homes’ shows that a ‘Storm’ has released its fury on those in its path.The ‘Weather’ that has been unleashed can reflect actual weather,or psychological or emotional conditions. The ‘Homes’ need not be"expensive", but are places that are 'Valuable' to the occupants, theyusually feel protected and safe. Somehow, a ‘Stormy has raged through.Exactly what will happen next may be rather uncertain.
Oracle: You may find yourself much deeper in a situation than you
may have imagined, and now you are caged by the “walls” around
you. There is probably no immediate escape from the turbulence
that is happening. You may have had some forewarning that this‘Storm’ was coming; with pressure piling up, threatening to explodeat any moment. You may have had no intention or made no particularmovements to invoke this ‘Storm’, however it’s out of hand in yourenvironment nonetheless. The best thing to do is to wait it out andprotect yourself, and those around you. Although this may have beenbuilding for days, or years, many are often taken by surprise at thesudden turn of events or the intensity of what’s being unleashed. Anevent or something that was said can let loose a torrent of emotionaland physical energy that may be hard to contain. In fact, endeavoring
to contain it may result in more damage. Things probably need to blowthemselves out naturally. A positive outcome may not come to lightfor awhile, but things will fall back where they are meant to, in theend. Look back to see what you’ve contributed, as it may help to see a
way out, or at least reconcile what’s happened. It’s likely that a numberof people have been affected. It may be a disaster, or it may end upbeing a blessing in some way. See if you can rebuild your community
- some people may have to be left out of your life, however.
Keywords: Arguments and emotional confrontations. The “pressure
cooker” environments of modern-day living. Psychic energyunleashed. Furious emotions. Changing the status quo. Bad weatherand its consequences. Rebuilding from the foundations. Living incanyons. Being surrounded by mountainous peaks. The awesome power of nature.
The Caution: Wrongly believing that you are in control of theuncontrollable. Enjoyment of emotional storms and turmoil. Lots
of noise that erupts out of nowhere. Whipping things up. Lifethreatening behavior. Confrontations. Storm fronts. Social upheavals.Disturbing or violent reactions. Domestic violence.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 27
Try to relax and enjoy the crisis.
Ashleigh Brilliant
Watch out for emergencies.They are your big chance.
Fritz Reiner
Aman is sometimes lost in the
dust of his own raising.David Ruggles
It is your business when the wallnext door catches fire.Horace
Rain does not fall on one roof
alone.
Cameroon Proverb
You don’t develop courage
by being happy in your
relationships everyday.You develop it by surviving difficult times and challenging adversity.Barbara De Angelis
“I lose my temper, but it’s allover in a minute, said thestudent. “So is the hydrogenbomb,”I replied. But think of the damage it produces!”George Sweeting
There is a great deal ofunmapped country within uswhich would have to be takeninto account in an explanationof our gusts and storms.
George Eliot

4-28: AN INDIAN GIRL INTRODUCES
HER COLLEGE BOYFRIEND TO HER
ASSEMBLED TRIBE
Commentary: ‘An Indian Girl Introduces Her College Boyfriendto Her Assembled Tribe’ is an image of the spanning of cultures,languages or belief systems through love and acceptance. Thepeople in this Symbol are bridging the gap between people orsituations that are usually foreign to each other. They may comefrom completely different “sides of the tracks”. However, it is the
deeply felt understanding of both camps, intellectual and tribal,
and the respect with which these people are held that makes their
mutual acceptance possible. It may be that having an educationcreates a gap between those that have formal training and thosethat haven't. This Symbol can also refer to generation gaps. Despite
any differences in the way a family or close group may see the
world, there should always be the essential elements of family,
respect and pride shown to those who come.
Oracle: It is by ‘Introducing’ new people, those that are outsideour usual intimate circle, whether it be family, community (ortribe), or even our business world, that the potential of our livesis expanded. The motivation for this change, or challenge, tothe status quo is love and the willingness to accept things that
are normally foreign to us. There may be all kinds of intellectual
disputes or stubborn resistance to new people or ways of life,but these will be welcomed when the there is a motivation foracceptance. It is in both the giving and seeking of acceptancethat we show a wise heart, even in the face of surface or socialdifficulties. If there are hurdles or barriers around you, persevere.These can, and will, evaporate with time as people’s ideas softenthrough becoming familiar with each other. With persistent loveand openness, barriers can be overcome.
Keywords: Challenging or going against the status quo. Bringingin a new, more intellectual, element OR bringing in a more natural,earth-based attitude. Being the odd one out. Revealing strange,foreign situations or truths to others. Accepting people withoutjudgment. Being welcoming and loving. Clans. Tribes.
The Caution: Deliberately upsetting the group. Unconventional oralternative behavior. Choosing friends or mates that could never fitin with one’s family, friends or social expectations. Using prejudice
to keep people apart. Judging people by social standards. Peoplemisunderstanding each other. Hidden motives. Rebellion for the
sake of being different. Ignoring tradition.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 28
For that reason, if no other,Would I wed the fair Dacotah,That our tribes might beunited, That old feuds might be
forgotten,And old wounds be
healed forever.Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
Winston Churchill was not
entirely British. His mother wasAmerican, making Sir Winstonpart Iroquois Indian.Rachel Blanchard
It isa common enough case,that of aman being suddenlycaptivated by a woman nearlythe opposite of his ideal.George Eliot
It is the mark of an educated
mind to be able to entertain athought without accepting it.Aristotle
Differences challengeassumptions.Anne Wilson Schaef
Honest differences are oftenqa healthy sign of progress.Mahatma Gandhi
Ideological differences are noexcuse for rudeness.Judith Martin
What sets worlds in motion is
the interplay of differences, theirattractions and repulsions; life
is plurality, death is uniformity.
Octavio Paz

4-29: A GREEK MUSE WEIGHING NEW
BORN TWINS IN GOLDEN SCALES
Commentary: ‘A Greek Muse Weighing New Born Twins inGolden Scales’. The ‘Muses’ were Greek deities of the arts andsciences. Artists and scientists alike would invoke the wisdom
and inspiration of the 'Muses' before any creative or intellectual
work was begun. In Greek mythology there are nine ‘Muses’ thatspecialize in different aspects of thought and creativity.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, you may be pressed intomaking judgments and decisions in a creative or intuitive way. As
the ‘Greek Muse’ is ‘Weighing New Born Twins’, the elements ofyour judgment are likely to be, in many ways, very similar. The
choices are confusing because they essentially lead to the same
result.This situation is probably brand new. It may be that theanswer lies in taking an intuitive “punt”, or guess, or perhaps youneed to wait for more information for the solutions to becomemore clear-cut. Either way it is by consulting universal wisdomthat you can focus on the best answer. Are you consulting the right‘Muse’? Are you considering the issue from the best perspective?This is, overall, a very fortunate Symbol - it indicates that yourchoices are equally beneficial, or at least, equally balanced.Whatever you decide will most likely be a good decision. ThisSymbol can also indicate a very quick mind that can makedecisions very quickly due to a natural mechanism that can be
called on.
Keywords: Comparisons and similarities. Weighing things up.
The law and lawyers. The Scales ofJustice. First communion. Thevalue of new beginnings. Grand gestures. Ceremonies. Lookingfor subtle aspects. Balances. Using the intuition. Weighingup pros and cons. Hesitating before making decisions. Subtlediscriminations of differences. Measured responses. Inspiration.
The gift of prophecy. Patrons of the arts. Ponder. Fairness.Equality. Meticulous attention to detail. Evaluations.
The Caution: Expressing judgmental opinions about things thatare essentially equal. Being picky. The scales tipped. Everythinggetting off balance. Constantly weighing things up instead of justaccepting them. Not being able to move forward with plans orideas because of a feeling of being stuck. Excessive argumentsfor or against. Continual wavering. Being persnickety. Tippingthe scales.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 29
Perfection is reached not whenthere is no longer anything toadd, but when there is no longer
anything to take away.Antoine de Saint Exupery
It is in your moments ofdecision that your destiny isshaped.Anthony Robbins
Jury: Twelve people whodetermine which client has thebetter lawyer.Robert Frost
He is no lawyer who cannottake two sides.Charles Lamb
The margin is narrow, but the
responsibility is clear.
John F. Kennedy
The wise weigh their words onascale with gold.
The Bible
Rare is the person who canweigh the faults of otherswithout putting his thumb onthe scales.Byron J. Langenfield
Spend time every day listening
to what your muse is trying to
tell you.Saint Bartholomew
Choice—It is always your nextmove.Napoleon Hill

4-30: A DAUGHTER OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION
Commentary: ‘A Daughter of the American Revolution’ is an imageof someone who stands for and is a product of change. She haspromoted and adopted the changes that the ‘Revolution’ sought toachieve. ‘The American Revolution’, was a full-scale militant revoltagainst tradition, and the monarchy behind it. The ‘Daughters”
forefathers fought for independence and took the “feudal system”head-on. The ‘Daughers’ stand for maintaining what has beenwon. They need to continue working and, although the war has
largely been won, there are many more “peaceful” battles that
must be waged to keep what the ‘Revolution’ fought for. They are
not necessarily engaged in direct political or military activity, but
offer their support to the powers that be. The alliance of their
fathers’ political stance may be largely determined by their personal
relationship to them, rather than their own political beliefs.
Oracle: A ‘Revolution’ is just the shakeup; it is the ‘Daughters’(and sons) of the ‘Revolution’ that bring new ways into the world.The person pictured here is said to be a ‘Daughter’ because theway of continuing the revolution is with the feminine ways ofcommunication, example and teaching. The ways of the “sons”,
that of war and fighting, should be over and done with. That is,
unless a battle needs to be fought to secure freedom from externalforces once again. You may find yourself having to stand up for anideal or a situation that demands your involvement. The difficultyis that these traditions are now predictable, conservative values.Despite any inner feelings of modern freedom, this is not how the
situation now appears. However, although this image can be veryconservative, there can be an element of the “radical” within it.There still may be much yet to be achieved even though there hasbeen major breakthroughs already.
Keywords: Being bound by social conditioning OR leading the
charge to break down the barriers of tradition. Putting in the timeto change social conditions for the betterment of all. The feministmovement. Sacrificing personal conviction to ambition. Sacrificingphilosophy to a relationship that builds the ego. Inherited values.Being the rebel in the family.
The Caution: Supporting battles that have already been fought.False feelings of superiority. Having to be “in the club” to beaccepted. Narrow-minded conservatism. Glorifying the past.
Relying on old traditions that were, in their day, radical andtransforming. Rejecting one’s inheritance.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Cancer 30
The greatest glory of a freebornpeople is to transmit that
freedom to their children.William Harvard
The hand that rocks the cradlerules the nation and its destiny.South African Proverb
A citizen of America willcross the ocean to fight fordemocracy, but won't crossthe street to vote in a nationalelection.Bill Vaughan
Dear Mr. President, There are too many states nowadays.Please eliminate three.PS.lam not a crackpot.Abraham Simpson
It is easy to take liberty forgranted when you have neverhad it taken from you.
M. Grundler
Those who make peaceful
revolution impossible will make
violent revolution inevitable.
John F. Kennedy
They want to be free and theydo not know how to bejust.Abbe Sieyes
Seek not to change the world,but choose to change your
mind about the world.A Course In Miracles

5-1: UNDER EMOTIONAL STRESS, BLOOD
RUSHES TO A MAN’S HEAD
Commentary: ‘Under Emotional Stress, Blood Rushes To a Man’s
Head’ is what happens when a situation arises which fires up one’s
mind and emotions quickly and suddenly. This can lead to anger, butit can also lead to being stuck in a sequence of emotional reactions.If this ‘Emotional Stress’ proves to be embarrassing, it can lead toblushing, which can be hard to conceal.
Oracle: There may be nothing that can be done at the moment. It’slike being immobilized with neither mental nor physical control.Resistance may just make the situation worse. Don’t panic, though—this will not last forever. When emotions or ambitions take overthere is a need to put extra energy into thinking everything through
with a calm frame of mind. However, when you're under ‘Stress’ it is
often difficult, if not impossible, to settle down and think rationally.When temper erupts it works against the mind from settling down.If you restrict or ignore your frustrations and anxieties your situation
could blow out of control. It is important to recognize whether
you're reacting to a situation because it bothers you, or whether it’sbecause you're generally going through a stressful time. Be carefulnot to explode every time you are under some kind of duress, as
this can create a “cranky” type of person who is unbearable unlesscircumstances are smooth and calm. At the very least it is importantto notice what the underlying problems are that are bringing thingsto ahead. What is the real problem? If someone explodes every time
there is some emotional stress it can become a habit. Consequently,
family and friends tiptoe around in an effort to keep things calm. Thisleads to everyone internalizing their anger and frustration, and theproblem is projected onto those around. Try to not to take things,
or yourself, too seriously. It may take some time to take the energyout of the charge. Meditation or “getting away from it all” could be a solution.
Keywords: Ambition. Becoming fired-up. Charging off in alldirections at once. Dizziness and disorientation. Nervous breakdowns.Not acting like one’s usual self. Events coming to a head. Feeling likeone will explode at any moment. Too many obligations to live up to.
Feeling incapable of action. Too much excitement to contain safely.
Headaches. Blood pressure. Erections. Animal passions.
The Caution: Becoming ill through emotional suppression. Losingone’s cool. Going off the deep end. Lack of self-restraint. Taking thingstoo seriously. Grumpiness and irritability. Not knowing how to act orrespond. Difficulty containing emotional reactions. Unable to makeaccurate decisions due to irrational thoughts. Sunburn.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 1
It doesn’t pay to say too muchwhen you are mad enough to
choke. For the word that stingsthe deepest is the word that
is never spoke. Let the other
fellow wrangle till the storm
has blown away, then he'll doa heap of thinking about thethings you didn't say.James Whitcomb Riley
When anger rises, think of theconsequences.Confucius
Anger is a short madness.
Romanian Proverb
Perhaps there is only onecardinal sin: impatience.Because of impatience we aredriven out of Paradise; becauseof impatience we cannot return.Franz Kafka
It’s Been Lovely But! Have ToScream Now.Bumper Sticker
The ruling passion, be it what itwill, the ruling passion conquers
reason still.
Alexander Pope
How forcible are right words!But what doth your arguingreprove?The Bible

5-2: AN EPIDEMIC OF MUMPS
Commentary: ‘An Epidemic of Mumps’ can indicate a situation,illness or event that is affecting a number of people. An ‘Epidemic’is something contagious, like an illness that is racing throughoutthe populace or raging through a chain of friends or family.
Although it can affect people on a large scale, it may have startedwith just one person. The disease ‘Mumps’ can lead to sexualimpotence, in men it can literally happen, and a feeling of beingineffectual and useless. As it is an ‘Epidemic’, it will pay to nip itin the bud. It may, however, have to run its course.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, this Symbol can talk about
the literal spread of disease, but it can also symbolize news orgossip, e.g., a story that’s gotten completely out of control. This“infecting influence” could be affecting you or someone else in
the group, and it is likely to be spreading regardless of whetheranybody wants it to. This situation, or “disease”, needs to beharnessed as soon as possible, as this ‘Epidemic’ may spread fear
or upset to all those involved and further afield. The situation mayindeed get worse before it gets better. Finding the origin of the“infection”, or the extent of it’s spread or how far it has reachedwill go a long way to resolving the situation. It can at least act toslow it down so it can lose energy and dissipate. Therefore it canbe important to discover the facts about how or when it started,or perhaps how best to stop it. There may be a need for some
kind of separation or isolation, and then some time for recovery.
Remember that laughter can be infectious. Spread joy and love
instead of fear and worry!
Keywords: Hysterical feelings. Ideas of immunity. Things gettingout of control. Common threads that link people and places.Infectious diseases. Medicine and cures. Discovering the truth of
a situation and acting accordingly. Viruses and bacterial infectionsspreading. Rumors. Colds. Flu. Fear in general. The cat let outof the bag. The need for 'immunization'. The need for hygeine.Isolating causes of problems. Vaccinations. Outbreaks. Blood
tests. Tumors. Measles. Chicken pox.
The Caution: Fear of bad health. Hypochondria. Rampaginggossip. Widespread fear or upset. Stories that get out of control.Rashes and skin problems. Deprivation. Hiding one’s self away forfear of contagion. Fear of sharing one’s self with others. Obsession
with health. Embarrassment. Impotence. Contagious thoughts.Negative thinking and compulsive actions. The complications
of disease. Media frenzies. Problems that multiply with alarmingspeed.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 2
Thought is an infection.In thecase of certain thoughts, itbecomes an epidemic.Wallace Stevens
As contagion of sickness makes
sickness, contagion of trust canmake trust.Marianne Moore
My sources are unreliable, but
their information is fascinating.Ashleigh Brilliant
We are more apt to catchthe vices of others than theirvirtues, as disease is far morecontagious than health.Charles Caleb Colton
Good, the more communicated,more abundant grows.John Milton
A lie can run around the worldbefore the truth can get itsboots on.James Watt
A lie gets halfway around the
world before the truth has achance to get its pants on.
Sir Winston Churchill
Life is a disease;and the onlydifference between one manand another is the stage ofthe disease at which he lives.You are always at the crisis:1
am always in the convalescentstage.George Bernard Shaw

5-3: A MATURE WOMAN, KEEPING UP
WITH THE TIMES, HAVING HER HAIR
BOBBED
Commentary: ‘A Mature Woman’ here is ‘Keeping Up With theTimes’ through having a modern hairstyle; she’s ‘Having Her HairBobbed’. She doesn’t want to be out of touch with fashion and
considered old-fashioned. Getting her ‘Hair Bobbed’ helps her
to present an image of being modern and in tune with what’scurrent in the world. As she’s said to be ‘A Mature Woman’, thehairstyle may be her way of making a statement that with thechanges that are happening in her life she’s feeling somewhatdifferent about herself. When the Symbols were brought throughin 1925, it was, indeed, thought rather radical to cut your hair ina ‘Bob’ if you were a woman.
Oracle: Although we cannot really become different by changingour appearance, feeling good about the image we display does
radiate both inwardly and outwardly. This might be just what is
needed in the situation that brought you to the Oracle. However,as comforting and rejuvenating as an external change may be,remember that it is your inner self that is the essence of yourpersona, not the mask you wear. Altering your appearance justfor the sake of being trendy may be detrimental to your selfesteem or confidence; you may feel as though you are constantlyfollowing the crowd. ‘Keeping Up With the Times’ can sometimesbecome an obsession. Be sure that you are not making thesecosmetic changes to replace something lacking inside. Having saidthat, asserting your right to present your own style and feelingconfident about yourself can be invaluable for self-esteem andcan lead to others appreciating you for your true qualities.
Keywords: Making an effort to keep up with trends. Assertingone’s independence from social constraints. Wanting to shrug off
the years. Adopting a younger attitude. Following the herd. Going
along with the fashions. Plastic surgery. Changing appearances.Hairdressers and hairstyles. Gray hair. Hats and scarves. Meeting
the challenges of age. Radiating sexuality. Bad hair days. Mid-lifecrisis. Being a trendsetter.
The Caution: Relying on external fashion to disguise inneremptiness. Cosmetic changes that are transitory. Makingsuperficial but not meaningful alterations. Fashion slaves.The illusion of keeping up with the times. Giving up on one’s
appearance. Battling society’s glorification of youth. Mutton
dressed up as lamb.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 3
You can't make the Duchess
of Windsor into Rebecca ofSunnybrook Farm.Cleveland Amory
You're only as good as your last
haircut.Susan Lee
My concern today is not with
the length of a person's hair butwith his conduct. (On campusradicals)
Richard Milhouse Nixon
When a woman ceases to alterthe fashion of her hair, youguess that she has passed thecrisis of her experience.
Mary Austin
By common consent gray hairsare a crown of glory; the onlyobject of respect that can never
excite envy.
George Bancroft
A mode of conduct, a standardof courage, discipline, fortitudeand integrity can doa great
deal to make a woman
beautiful.Jacqueline Bisset
A truth looks freshest in the
fashions of the day.
Lord Alfred Tennyson
Some never choose an opinion.They just wear whateverhappens to be in fashion.Leo Tolstoy

5-4: A MAN FORMALLY DRESSED
STANDS NEAR TROPHIES HE
BROUGHT BACK FROM A HUNTING
EXPEDITION
Commentary: ‘A Man Formally Dressed Stands Near Trophies’is an image of someone putting on their best attire and showingsomething that’s seen by himself and others as being a reward forachieving success in a male dominated arena. These are ‘TrophiesHe Brought Back From a Hunting Expedition’ and they are his todisplay or show off. It can be something he’s found, fought, shot
or “bagged” in some way. It’s safe to assume that he’s very proud
of his success and he may have had to endure incredible stress and
dangers to acquire it. Whatever the ‘Trophies’ are, it is one thing
to achieve them and another to then display these achievementsfor all to see.
Oracle: This Symbol shows that there may be the urge, or the need,
to impress others. There should always be some form of recognitionor award for a job well done. Being proud and having a sense ofsatisfaction for accomplishing something should be awarded and
congratulated. But just what are the rewards and spoils that you're
after? Some people will be pleased with the display, but there’s the
possibility of some being uninterested and further, others couldbe distinctly unimpressed. Think carefully of the effects beforeyou do anything as others may feel jealous or try to shoot you
down for showing off. The “Trophies’ can be diplomas and awardsfor performing well on any level. Have you truly accomplished
something? If so you should be acknowledged and congratulated,OR, are they just “things” that you can claim for yourself withoutconsidering where they’ve come from or caring about what had tobe done to achieve them?
Keywords: Trophies of conquest. The desire to show oneself.Proving one’s animal instincts for the benefit of social position.Displays of manliness. The spoils of daring and courage. Notcheson the belt. Victories over another. Trophies awarded for one’s club,social standing or country. Looking for pats on the back. Diplomas.Guns, rifles, ammunition. Academy Awards. Animal liberationists.
The Caution: Dominating nature with power. Showing off. Warfareand the ravages of it. Keeping tabs on one’s conquests. Boasting ofmasculine prowess. Living in the past. Arrogance. Seeing things asobjects to conquer. Testosterone overloads. Compromises made toattain social acceptance. Envious responses to success,
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 4
Lots of people who complainedabout us receiving the MBEreceived theirs for heroism in
the war—for killing people. Wereceived ours for entertainingother people. I'd say we deserveours more.John Lennon
There’s always something
about your success thatdispleases even your bestfriends.
Mark Twain
One nice thing about egotists:they don’t talk about otherpeople.Lucille S. Harper
I don’t deserve this award, but|have arthritis, and |don'tdeserve that, either.Jack Benny
He who doesn’t risk never gets
to drink champagne.
Russian Proverb
A sportsman is aman who,every now and then, simply hasto get out and kill something.Not that he’s cruel. He wouldn't
hurt a fly. It’s not big enough.Stephen Leacock
The English country gentleman
galloping after a fox—the
unspeakable in full pursuit of
the uneatable.
Oscar Wilde

5-5: ROCK FORMATIONS TOWERING
OVER A DEEP CANYON
Commentary: ‘Rock Formations Towering Over a Deep Canyon’is an image of large prominences of rock forming a steepprecipice over a canyon, valley or gorge. The landscape can be
very formidable, awe-inspiring and rather off-putting, makingone feel very small and somehow insignificant when observingit. We are reminded of the enormity of nature and how small wetruly are in the grand scheme of things.
Oracle: Things may have been smooth sailing for some time,
but now you could be finding yourself trapped between a rock
and a hard place. It’s likely that the natural structure of your
situation has carefully grown and developed over time. There
is a history here, but this is only recognizable by the obvious
emotional and physical effects that are shown around you in the
world. The soft spots have been worn away; and many of thehard edges have been smoothed under the weight of the weatherand experience. Right now progress is at a precipice, with the
structures of the past pressing from behind. There seems to be no
going back—forward is probably the only way out. There may bea feeling of being unable to cope out in the wilderness. The best,or possibly only, solution may be to “jump into the void”. It may
be a lonely journey, but you will find new depths of experiencethat you could only have imagined before now. Be wary though,another side to this Symbol can indicate instability - the ‘RockFormations’ that ‘Tower Over the ‘Deep Canyon’ are not goingto be stable forever. They are at the mercy of the elements; wecan’t rely on these formations forever. The situation may lookrock solid, but time may tell a different story.
Keywords: Old structures and deep hazards. The choice: takingchances or standing still. Walking very close to the edge. Extremesports. Risk taking. New takes on old situations. Additions tothings long established. Masada. Mountains. Valleys and gorges.
Fortifications. Isolation. The grandeur of nature. The forces ofevolution. Rock. Geology. Layers of permanence. Landscapes.Canyons. Vertigo. No going back. Stability behind—the unknown
in front. Great heights. Monuments.
The Caution: Painting oneself into a corner. Not being able toretrace one’s steps. Instability. Erosion. Jumping into the voidwithout a safety net. Cracks appearing. Doing a “Geronimo”. Beingright on the edge. Feeling like life is impossibly hard.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 5
When you look long into anabyss, the abyss looks into you.Friedrich Nietzsche
Do the thing you fear and the
death of fear is certain.Ralph Waldo Emerson
Look twice before you leap.
Charlotte Bronte
When one must, one can.Yiddish Proverb
You've got to jump off cliffs allthe time and build your wingson the way down.
Ray Bradbury
The greatest mistake aman canmake is to be afraid of makingone.Elbert Hubbard
Man can learn nothing exceptby going from the known to the
unknown.Claude Bernard
When you fall into a pit, eitheryou get out or die.Chinese Proverb
A journey of a thousand miles
starts in front of your feet. Atower nine stories high is built
froma small heap of earth.
Lao-Tzu
Drive a rat into a corner,andhe'll jump atyou.Proverb

5-6: AN OLD FASHIONED CONSERVATIVE
WOMAN IS CONFRONTED BY AN
UP-TO-DATE GIRL
Commentary: ‘An Old Fashioned Conservative Woman isConfronted by an Up-to-Date Girl’. They have somehow beenbrought together by a situation or circumstance and are nowface-to-face with each other. The ‘Old-Fashioned ConservativeWoman’ may feel somehow ‘Confronted’ or challenged by thepresence or the very existence of the ‘Up-to-Date Girl’. The‘Girl’ may remind her of how she used to be, or how she alwayswanted to be. The ‘Up-to-Date Girl’ may be confronted by the‘Conservative Woman’—she may have her own sense of inferiority,
or even superiority, and many things may run through her mind as
she sees herself reflected in the older woman. One of the scariestthings to young people is the thought of aging. They like to believethey will remain young and bright forever.
Oracle: This Symbol often shows issues of the aging process beinga positive experience, rather than the negative image people
generally have of it. The ‘Old Fashioned Woman’ or the ‘Up-to-Date Girl’ do not have to stick to their stereotype; they can, indeed,bring the best of both worlds together. In fact, their roles may be
reversed with the ‘Older’ woman being less 'Conservative' than the‘Younger’ one. You may find yourself faced with a choice between
tried and true established ways and the modern or innovative. It
is most likely that the best qualities of both attitudes is the proper
compromise. There may be a need to be mindful of other people’s
mindsets and generational differences. However, you can’t please
everyone all the time. Also, remember what bothers people about
someone else is often a reflection of their own issues.
Keywords: Conservatism challenged by changing, energetic forms.
Learning to let one’s hair down. Letting go and having a good
time. Issues of age and what one’s capable of. Ideas challenged.Learning experiences. Renovations. Business takeovers. Differentcapabilities and talents. People acting or working togetherregardless of their differences. Generation gaps. Concentrating.Face to face meetings.
The Caution: Denying the duality within. Being afraid to getout there. Jealousy between people on different levels of beingor different ages. Paying no attention to change/being afraid ofit. Difficult combinations of people. Projection of the shadow.Standoffs. Criticism. Derision, envy, fear, jealousy. Age overridingfeelings.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 6
To live lightheartedly butnot recklessly; to be gaywithout being boisterous; tobe courageous without being
bold; to show trust and cheerful
resignation without fatalism—this is the art of living.
Jean de La Fontaine
I used to be with ‘it’ but thenthey changed what ‘it’ was. Now
what I’m with isn’t ‘it’anymoreand what's ‘it’seems weird andscary.Abraham Simpson
No idea is so antiquated that it
was not once modern; no ideais so modern that it will notsomeday be antiquated.
Ellen Glasgow
The virtue of some peopleconsists wholly in condemning
the vices in others.
Herbert Samuel!
It is only the modern that everbecomes old-fashioned.Oscar Wilde
It’s hard for me to get used to
these changing times.| can
remember when the air was
clean and sex was dirty.George Burns
Women dress alike all over
the world: they dress to beannoying to other women.
Elsa Schiaparelli

5-7: THE WONDER OF THE
CONSTELLATIONS OF STARS IN THE
NIGHT SKY
Commentary: ‘The Wonder of the Constellations of Stars in theNight Sky’ brings to mind the amazing sense of beauty that canbe felt when observing the heavens. Just as our ancestors sawpictures in the 'Stars', a ‘Constellation’ is an expression of howour imagination can see designs and symbols in things that we
usually take for granted. ‘The Night Sky’ can create images thatinspire us to greater awareness. Questions such as “what am Ihere for?” “what is life really about?” and “what difference do I(or can I) make to this world?”, etc. can come up as we gaze at
the heavens. The clearer the sky and the darker the night, themore we can feel drawn to that vast space and are held in awe ofit. Nature can often show us how “small” we are in the universe,and yet how important we are to “the whole”.
Oracle: The bigger questions are likely to be in your mind at
the moment. Simple issues will be viewed against a backdrop of
something greater. This helps to keep your life in perspective.This Symbol is about the need to see the patterns in what is goingon around you. Rather than looking at each thing separately,step back and see the wider view—allow your imagination andintuition to create an inspiring vision that gives answers anddirection to your life. Sometimes individual events have no moreimportance than to act as cogs in a wheel of a broader, moreinspirational message. Looking at the sky can induce wonder at
life’s possibilities. The 'Stars' are so far away, yet they feel large and
close when the sky is clear and dark. Try to get out and observethe 'Night Sky'. This can help to bring a sense of wonder and aweinto your life and remind you of the beauty of our universe.
Keywords: Reminders of the patterns, integration and enormityof nature. The big picture. Observing signatures. A determinationto “be somebody”. The Stars and Stripes. Feeling like a tiny fleckagainst the backdrop of the vault of the sky. Space travel andits wonders. Signs from the heavens. Answers sought through
astrology. Astronomy. Being a shining star. Enormous people or
personalities.
The Caution: Ignoring down-to-earth issues. Missing the smalldetails. Only being amazed by huge things and not seeing wonder
in the small things in life. Being starstruck and not seeing the
true picture.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 7
Watch the stars and from
them learn.To the Master’shonor all must turn, Each in itstrack, without a sound, Forevertracing Newton's ground.Albert Einstein
As soon as man does nottake his existence for granted,but beholds it as somethingunfathomably mysterious,thought begins.
Albert Schweitzer
The purpose of life is theinvestigation of the sun,the moon, and the heavens.Anaxagoras
A person should contemplatethe workings of the
universe with reverence andintrospection. !n this way
expression is given to the effects
of these laws upon his own
person. This is the source of a
hidden power.I Ching
I'm astounded by people who
want to know the Universe. It’s
hard enough to find your wayaround Chinatown.
Woody Allen
Anyone informed that the
universe is expanding and
contracting in pulsations of
eighty billion years has a rightto ask, “What's in it for me?”Peter De Vries

5-8: AN ACTIVIST IS STIRRING UP
DISCONTENT BY SPREADING HIS
REVOLUTIONARY IDEALS
Commentary: ‘An Activist is Stirring up Discontent by Spreadinghis Revolutionary Ideals’. He has had some enlightening ordisturbing insight into what’s going on in society. He wants peopleto listen to his message and, probably, influence or change theirway of thinking. The ‘Activist’ feels that he has the answers to
how life should really be and what rights people are entitled to.
To some people, his beliefs, or his radical ways, may be somewhat
confronting and threatening to their everyday lives. To others,
his ‘Ideals’ may fit with what they’ve wanted in their own lives;he can be a beacon calling out for action. His message can bechallenging, stirring or misleading.
Oracle: Society often looks down on those who have bright and
burning ideas of 'Revolution’, when in reality they should perhapsbe thanked for having the vision, or foresight, to see the need forit. On the other hand, somebody may be forcing their ideas on
others - what one person thinks is not always right for others.And, of course, ‘Activists’ are not always spreading useful, or
practical, ideas. They can be extremist and unrealistic. Striving
for the ideals of equality for all tends to be more relevant tothose in a disadvantaged position. Those who live safely withinthe comfort of society rarely rebel against what’s happening;however, there are exceptions to this. There may indeed be theneed for a change to the status quo. This must come from someone
who is prepared to sacrifice personal comfort in order to remaintrue to his or her ideals fighting for the common good. You mayfeel that you have had enough of the situation and that you have
no power. If so, you probably need to enlist the support of othersif you wish to succeed. It is through the promise of equality thatpower will be won.
Keywords: Unwavering and unbending intellect. Burningpassions. Revolutionary ideals. Change for the sake of change.Making one’s ideas and passions known. Standing on a
soapbox. Greenpeace and other radical groups. Anti-capitalism.
Entrepreneurs. Working hard to wake others up. Challenging
authority. Demonstrations. Placards. Rejecting oppression.Soapboxes.
The Caution: Political brainwashing. Finding things to bedissatisfied with. Extremism. Religious fundamentalists. Street
preachers. Cult leaders. Terrorism. Breeding hate. Challengingpowerful institutions. Propaganda. Animosity.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 8
If you don't stand forsomething, you will fall for
anything.Chinese Proverb
Aman may be poorly dressed
and penniless, yet his burning
desire can bring him the
opportunity of his lifetime.E Barnes
There is nothing more difficultto take in hand, more perilousto conduct or more uncertain inits success than to take the lead
in the introduction of aneworder of things.Niccolo Machiavelli
The people must fight fortheir laws as for their walls.Heraclitus
The first duty of a revolutionistis to get away with it.Abbie Hoffman
I hate the idea of causes, and
if! had to choose between
betraying my country and
betraying my friend,! hope!
should have the guts to betraymy country.E. M. Forster
Aman is sometimes lost in thedust of his own raising.
David Ruggles
All movements go too far.Bertrand Russell

5-9: GLASS BLOWERS SHAPE BEAUTIFUL
FORMS WITH THEIR CONTROLLED
BREATHING
Commentary: ‘Glass Blowers’ are shaping ‘Beautiful Forms With
Their Controlled Breathing’. They have to be craftsmen of theirart in order to be able to make the forms ‘Beautiful’. They musttake care and work with precision to have their ‘Glass’ objects takeshape and be pleasing to the eye. When Venetian 'Glass Blowers'
made a mistake in creating fine bottles they called them a fiasco.‘Their Controlled Breathing’ can almost be like a meditation, withevery ‘Breath’ and every movement being important to the finalresult.
Oracle: This Symbol is about understanding the spiritual flow
involved in creativity. It is also about the wonderful things that
can be done when one has a great depth of understanding of whatone wants to achieve. It can also signify the things we might leavebehind that symbolize or act as reminders of significant moments
of our lives. These memories are fragile and dependent upon howwell they are cared for. Your inner spiritual energies can shapeyour situation into something worthwhile now. It is only with thecontrolled use of these energies that you will actually be able tocraft this situation correctly. It is important, however, for you to letgo of any fears that what you do may not last. It is the act of creatingsomething beautiful, from the heart and soul, that is the point of ourparticipation in life. Be careful not to let your imagination get out ofcontrol; the mind can be responsible for warping reality to fit ourthoughts. Connecting with the unknown depths of unconsciousexperience is often reliant upon the control of ‘Breath’. Practicing
breathing meditations and learning about diaphragm control cantake one’s whole existence onto a new level of being. Watchingwhat you breathe life into can be very illuminating. Focus on whatyou're creating with your life. Are you ‘Shaping Beautiful Forms’
with your creations?
Keywords: Being able to create beautiful forms out of nothing.Prana. Singing, performing. Buteyko breathing method. Sculpture.Beauty. Breath meditations. Artisans. Rebirthing. Extreme care and
detail. Lungs. Respiration = creation and inspiration. Pouring life
into creative visions. Smoke rings. Didgeridoos. Smoking pipesand implements.
The Caution: Failing to take proper care. Lapses of concentration.Distortions of the truth. Hyperventilation. Lung troubles. Asthma.Smoking too much.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 9
As the same fire assumesdifferent shapes, when it
consumes objects differing inshape, so does the one self takethe shape of every creature inwhom he is present.Upanishads
Anger is an acid that can domore harm to the vessel in whichit is stored than to anything onwhich it is poured.Anon
The greath becomes a stone;
the stone, a plant; the plant,
an animal; the animal,a man,
a spirit; and the spirit,a god.
Christian Nestell Bovee
Courage is a matter of the red
corpuscle. It is oxygen thatmakes every attack; without
oxygen in his blood to backhim,a man attacks nothing—
not even a pie, much less ablank canvas.
Elbert Hubbard
The artist is nothing without
the gift, but the gift is nothingwithout work.Emile Zola
Every artist dips his brush in hisown soul, and paints his ownnature into his picture.Henry Ward Beecher

5-10: EARLY MORNING DEW SALUTES THE
SUNLIGHT
Commentary: ‘Early Morning Dew Salutes the Sunlight’ givesthe feeling of freshness in the air as the sun comes up in the‘Morning’. The warmth of the Sun is yet to create the vibrancyof the new day, but the promise is there. This is a time of limbo,when the stillness and the darkness of night are washed away as
the day progresses into light and activity. However, this Symbolcan signify a time known as the “dark night of the soul”. St.
John of the Cross used this term to describe the experienceof mystics who feel depressed and isolated, from the worldand even from God. This was often prior to the attainment ofmystical transcendence - when the ‘Sunlight’ breaks throughand a healing takes place. This is a time of freshness where the“air” (the newly awakened mind) is crisp and the “ground” (therefreshed and renewed body) readies itself for a new round ofactivity. The birds are stirring and there is a buzzing in the air asall the creatures start moving about.
Oracle: There are times in our life when we wonder if we canpersevere to the end of some ordeal. After a cold and difficulttime, you may now be close to the end of your troubles andsensing that the resolution to your problems is imminent. The
reward of relief may prove to be transitory, so enjoy it beforeyou move on with the activity of the new day. You may still havesome of the same issues to face, but now there is probably moreinsight into what changes and shifts in attitude can be made.Awakening energies are signaling new beginnings. Taking yourshoes off and walking on the grass in the early morning is saidto be very good for the soul.
Keywords: Refreshment after periods of “the long night of thesoul”. Dawn meditations bringing new starts and new inspiration.Dew. Water dripping from trees. The dawning of a new day
and the relief that it can bring. Changing of the guard. Naturalprogression. Inheritances. Exhalted feelings of release. Dropletson spiderwebs.
The Caution: Not letting go of difficult situations. Persisting withproblems that could have been solved. Feeling that the worst isgoing to happen, even though things are lightening up. Beingafraid of the night. Staying up all night, being upset or unable to
sleep. Gloominess. Staying in bed well into the day. Leaving thelight on all night.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 10
The darkest hour is just beforedawn.Thomas Fuller
Let your life lightly dance on the
edges of Time like dew on the
tip of a leaf.Rabindranath Tagore
There was never a night or
a problem that could defeatsunrise or hope.Bern Williams
On life’s journey faith isnourishment, virtuous deeds
are a shelter, wisdom is the light
by day and right mindfulnessis the protection by night. Ifaman lives a pure life, nothingcan destroy him.Buddha
One may not reach the dawnsave by the path of the night.Kahlil Gibran
No one is as capable of
gratitude as one who hasemerged from the kingdom ofnight.Elie Wiesel
There are twelve hours in theday, and above fifty in the night.Marie de Rabutin-Chantal
The morning pouringeverywhere, its golden glory on
the air.Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

5-11: CHILDREN ON A SWING IN THE
SAFETY OF A HUGE OAK TREE
Commentary: ‘Children on a Swing in the Safety of a Huge OakTree’ brings to mind images of ‘Children’ playing, having funtogether and being protected by the big branches of the ‘HugeOak Tree’. ‘Oak Trees’ infer enormous strength. The ‘Oak’s’strength, the hardness and durability of the timber, and theirlong life give the Oak a special significance. In England, the Oakhas been referred to as the “Monarch of the Forest”. CowthorpeOak in Yorkshire can hold 70 people in its hollow. It is said to beover 1,600 years old. The Ellerslie Oak, near Paisley, is reportedto have sheltered Sir William Wallace and 300 of his men. HonourOak, Whitchurch, Tavistock was the place where money was leftin exchange for food during the cholera epidemic of 1832.
Oracle: It is easier to enjoy carefree, childlike play when one’s
‘Safety’ and care is assured. Protective environments are the
places where playgrounds can be created. In this Symbol it is thevery structure of the things around you or even your particularlocation that provides the ‘Safety’ that’s needed. By the verynature of things, safe surroundings can take care of everyone.Institutions like the Social Security system are similar to the ‘OakTree’. Religions and social organizations can also provide. thisprotected environment for people. In general, it is security andprotection that needs to be afforded to us for us to follow our
true path. Look for the stability and strength in your situation, andexpand your wishes and dreams into that protected environment.This Symbol can indicate being relieved from responsibility. Thisis a good time to relax into playing with others. Feel ‘Safe’ in the
knowledge that everything will remain secure. Keep in touch
with the innocence and openness of youthful play.
Keywords: Creativity in safe surroundings. Being protectedand privileged. Social security and other forms of governmentalprotection. Agencies that bring food, education and basic needs tochildren in difficult circumstances. Children, trees, grass, swings,parks. Amusement parks. Childhood memories. Climbing trees.Spontaneous activity. Humanitarian agencies. Security comingthrough family. Safe confines.
The Caution: Expecting others to take all the responsibility whileone just plays. Children not being looked after. Disadvantaged
people. Desertion by government and big business. Not wantingto grow up. Always relying on others to provide fun, safety orshelter.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 11
I sit beneath your leaves, old oak,
You mighty one of all the trees;Within whose hollow trunk aman Could stable his big horsewith ease.W.H. Davies
One that would have the fruitmust climb the tree.
Thomas Fuller
Woodman, spare that tree!Touch nota single bough! In
youth it sheltered me, and I'llprotect it now.George Pope Morris
The forest laments in order that
Mr. Gladstone may perspire.Sir Randolph Churchill
One generation plants the trees;
another gets the shade.Chinese Proverb
Train up a fig tree in the way itshould go, and when you are old
sit under the shade of it.Charles Dickens
Cut not the bough that thou
standest upon.Romanian Proverb
If nuclear power plants are safe,
let the commercial insurance
industry insure them. Until thesemost expert judges of risk arewilling to gamble with their
money, I’m not willing to gamblewith the health and safety of my
family. Donna Reed

5-12: AN EVENING GARDEN PARTY OF
ADULTS
Commentary: ‘An Evening Garden Party of Adults’ is an imageof people relaxing, chatting and getting to know each other.Enjoying time spent with friends, family or neighbors can bring
new depths to relationships and community. It can also lead tomeeting new people and the networking of ideas. Gossip often
comes up at ‘An Evening Garden Party’. People talk about each
other, swapping tales of their own and other people’s lives. Aslong as it is not harmful or malicious, gossip can be a valuable
part of the weaving of society. Talking together about one’s life,each other and, indeed, those not present, can lead to a deeperunderstanding of our lives and provides the chance to catch up
on what people have been doing. Socializing and chatting is partof the way we keep in contact with the news of the day.
Oracle: This Symbol signifies taking a much-needed break fromwork. Give the rigors of your work routine a rest. Relaxation
amongst your peers, where there is no need for exuberantpretense, can do nothing but good. Remember to live in themoment, enjoying this time out from care and trouble. It’simportant to give time and energy to your social life as it canrefresh you and lead to new friendships and contacts. However,
too much ambition, or trying to compete with others on a social
level can make it hard to relax and truly enjoy yourself and can
alienate others. If you don’t feel that you fit in with the group,remain composed and wait it out. You may have to put on a sociallyacceptable or brave face and go along with whatever’s expected.If this is the case, fulfill your role for the time being. It won’t belong before you're back in your own space again. Whatever, fillyour cup, have a bite to eat and relax with friends.
Keywords: Rising above superficiality into receptivity andpeace with others. People mixing in a social setting. Sedate
and conservative celebrations. Formal events vs. impromptu
gatherings. Gossip. Leisure time. Political correctness. Enjoyingsocializing. Being a good conversationalist. Drinks and food onplatters. Knowing who to invite.
The Caution: A sense of superficiality where things are knownbut not said out loud. Appearance and social standing taking ontoo much importance. Ignoring real and immediate issues. Notknowing how to act with the “adults”. Malicious gossip. Havingto face those you don’t want to see. Getting drunk and “out ofbounds”. False fronts.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 12
If I shall sell both my forenoonsand afternoons to society, asmost appear to do, I’m sure that,
for me, there would be nothing
left worth living for.
Henry David Thoreau
Ever notice that Soup For Oneis eight aisles away from theparty mix?Elayne Boosler
There is only one thing in the
world worse than being talkedabout, and that is not beingtalked about.Oscar Wilde
Giving parties is a trivialavocation, but it pays the duesfor my union card in humanity.
Elsa Maxwell
When Jerry Lewis and I were
big, we used to go to parties,and everybody thought |was
big-headed and stuck up,and
I wasn't. It was because I didn’tknow how to speak good
English, so I used to keep mymouth shut. Dean Martin
Living in New York is like beingat some terrible late-nightparty. You're tired, you've hadaheadache since you arrived, but
you can't leave because thenyoud miss the party.Simon Hoggart
The cocktail party is easily theworst invention since castor oil.Elsa Maxwell

5-13: AN OLD SEA CAPTAIN ROCKING ON
THE PORCH OF HIS COTTAGE
Commentary: ‘An Old Sea Captain’ is ‘Rocking on the Porch of HisCottage’. This Symbol is an image of someone who has put a lot oftime and energy into his life’s work. He has now reached the pointwhere he can take time out, to rest and relax. However, being an‘Old Sea Captain’, the love of the sea and adventure will be withhim forever. He may or may not be retired; whatever, he is takinga break. He has a chance to get on with more domestic mattersand to seek peace and quiet ‘On the Porch of His Cottage’.
Oracle: There is a need for quiet reflection, to look backat past experiences, especially those times that may haveseemed threatening. Take some time for a little solitude and tocontemplate the overall picture before you. When you are backinto the business of life, you will be more relaxed and have a betteridea of how you fit into the big picture. Feeling tired and reluctant
to get on with work can lead to feelings of failure and missedopportunities. You may need to take time out to contemplate
your home and environment and how you fit in. Perhaps jotting
down your memoirs can bring the missed and more dramatic
moments back into you mind. Even if things seem quiet now, itis probably only you holding yourself back from more exciting
adventures. The minute you feel like getting back to it, do it.You'll be surprised by how easy it can be to get back into theswing of things. For now, enjoying the ‘Porch’ or the garden ofyour home can lead to inner calm and quiet after many years ofwork, struggles or difficulty.
Keywords: Retreating into one’s self. Reflecting. Quiet confidence.
Knowing that one can conquer life’s storms and come out wiser.Observing life from afar. Wanting to opt out. Retirement, pensionsand pension plans. Being dismissed from one’s job. Redundancy.
The story of one's life. Memoirs. Rocking chairs and verandahs.Contemplation. Gardening. Longing for calmer days. Letters,diaries, photographs. Houses, cottages. Taking a break fromsociety.
The Caution: Ignoring what is happening in favor of memories.Inability to get going. Disconnecting from reality. Feeling lazy.The world owes you a living. Feeling jaded and worn out. Envyingthose that are ‘out there’” in the world. Wanting others to lookafter you. Complacency. Giving in and giving up. Hangovers.Forgetfulness. Feeling impotent. Being uninvolved. Opting outbefore one's time.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 13
Millions long for immortalitybut do not know what to do
with themselves on a rainySunday afternoon.Susan Ertz
Praise the sea; on shore remain.
John Florio
Would you learn the secret of
the sea? Only those who braveits dangers comprehend itsmystery!Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
Absence of occupation is not
rest.A mind quite vacant is amind distressed.William Cowper
I pant for retirement andleisure, butam doomed toinexpressible and almostunsupportable hurry.
Sarah Siddons
Retirement at sixty-five is
ridiculous. When I was sixty-five I still had pimples.
George Burns
People are always asking mewhen I’m going to retire. Whyshould I? I’ve got it two ways—
I'm still making movies, andI'm a senior citizen, so I can seemyself at half price.George Burns
Alone, alone, all, all alone, alone
ona wide, wide sea!Samuel Taylor Coleridge

5-14: CHERUB-LIKE, AHUMAN SOUL
WHISPERS INTO EVERY RECEPTIVE
EAR, SEEKING TO MANIFEST
Commentary: ‘Cherub-Like, A Human Soul Whispers Into EveryReceptive Ear, Seeking to Manifest’ is a Symbol of the desire to be
heard and taken seriously. This ‘Human Soul’ is trying to find a
‘Receptive Ear’, someone who will listen to or understand what'sbeing said, perhaps to spur others to take some kind of action.Something that has been waiting to be ‘Manifested’, said, heard orrealized could come out quite suddenly.
Oracle: There is likely to be a deep realization that will transform
your life on some level. The time may not be quite right, but it iscoming soon. Your creative or spiritual talents are attempting tocome through into conscious expression. Listening to your inner
voice, and heeding messages from others, can lead you to the nextlevel of your life. On the spiritual level, this Symbol shows themovement of the ‘Soul’ to new possibilities and opportunities. On
the more everyday level, it can imply that in order to find those who
wish to join our process or task, ideas need to be communicated inaquiet and suggestive manner, rather than being loud and demanding.Often when there’s a new idea in the air, many people seeminglycome up with it at the same time. This can be rather astounding; it’stime for this new thing to ‘Manifest’ and those that are ‘Receptive’to the message will hear and respond. However, if the messagescoming through are not clear, intelligent, or useful, it may lead to
wild-goose chases and extremes of behavior. Parts of the mind can
come tearing out - wishing to make themselves heard or known.Discriminate between what’s important and what’s not. Listen tomessages, something is seeking expression and needs a vehicle tobe able to ‘Manifest’. Are you the “vehicle”?
Keywords: New realizations and impulses. Seeking to haveone’s voice heard. Messages from the other side. Reincarnation.Channeling information. Spirit descending, wishing to make itselfknown. Whispering. Passing on news and messages. Seekingembodiment. Transpersonal urges. Cherubs and spirits. Earsand hearing. The urge to accomplish something. Compassion.Manifesting intention.
The Caution: Confusing voices. Signs of instability or madness.Feeling that if one isn’t heard, they will miss out. A need to benoticed and acknowledged. Not feeling like one can speak up.Shouting and making a spectacle. Trying to convince others ofsomething. Misleading statements.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 14
Let us be silent, that we may
hear the whispers of the gods.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
For ‘twas not into my ear youwhispered but into my heart;‘twas not my lips you kissed but
my soul.Judy Garland
In prayer, it is better to havea heart without words than
words without heart.
Mahatma Gandhi
It is the still, small voice that thesoul heeds, not the deafeningblasts of doom.William Dean Howells
What |like in a good authorisn’t what he says, but what he
whispers.Logan Pearsall Smith
The strongest muscle in thebody is the tongue.
Trivia.net
Let not thy will roar when thypower can but whisper.Thomas Fuller
The urge for self-actualization.
Dane Rudhyar
When hearts listen, angels sing.Anon
You called me, you shouted tome, you broke past my defenses.St. Augustine

5-15: A STREET PAGEANT MOVING ALONG
A STREET PACKED WITH PEOPLE
Commentary: The ‘Street Pageant’ is seen ‘Moving Along a StreetPacked With People’. People really enjoy a ‘Street Pageant’ or a
carnival, they get together to celebrate their community, evenif they aren’t directly involved in what’s being celebrated. Justwatching the ‘Street Pageant’ can inspire fun, joy and even a sense
of pride as people come out to watch and enjoy.
Oracle: It may be a great achievement, or an anniversary event,that has spurred this ‘Street Pageant’. A large celebration can bringthe community together and create some type of recognition for
what has been accomplished. Most people will contribute to and
support this display and share in the festivities. However, therewill always be those who grumble about something; a lack of
parking, too much noise or garbage being strewn about. Ignorethe grumblers and go for it, you and others deserve the fun andthe rewards. You are either in the 'Pageant' or watching it—whatdoes it feel like to you? Are you celebrating and enjoying the fun?
Are you feeling a little out of your depth and at the mercy of thepeople around you? Is there disagreement over the values ofwhat’s being celebrated? If things get out of hand in this situation,you may feel like you're pressed in and can’t get out. There can be
a feeling of being walled-in by people. Whatever is true put on a
happy and expressive face and go out and enjoy what’s going on.If people let down their barriers, they will find it easier to relateto others they may have never seen or interacted with before.
This can create a wonderful feeling of unity as people join in andcome together as one.
Keywords: Demonstrations of joy. Spectacular shows of solidarity.Ticker-tape parades. Community celebrations of victory or faith.Food and drink stalls. Mardi gras and gay pride parades. Beinga participant or an observer. Having a following. Gaiety andspectacle. Performers, musicians, magicians. Street stalls. Trafficmanagement. The mob. Lots of people. Cul-de-sacs. Carnivals.
The Caution: Egocentric displays. Blowing one’s trumpet. Closingoff some areas of life, overplaying others. Problems with neighbors
or people. Displays with little warmth or genuine communalfeelings. Feeling like sardines in a can. Noisy neighborhoods.
Loud music that annoys. Disruptive behavior. Hooligans and
louts. Looting. Lack of privacy and quiet. Garbage on the street.Barriers between people.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 15
You see someone on the street,and essentially what you noticeabout them is the flaw.
Diane Arbus
Whoever can conquer the streetwill one day conquer the state,
for every form of power politicsand any dictatorship-run state
has its roots in the street.
Joseph Goebbels
The last time I saw Paris, her
heart was warm and gay,I
heard the laughter of her heart
in every street cafe.Oscar Hammerstein
I live in a one-way deadendstreet.Bumper Sticker
Heaven is not built of
countryseats, but little queer
suburban streets.Christopher Morley
The people that I care about
are the people out there on the
street.I can identify with them.Diana—Princess of Wales
We learn about one another'sculture the same way we learnabout sex: in the streets.Ishmael Reed
Everything being a constantcarnival, there is no carnival left.Victor Hugo

5-16: BRILLIANT SUNSHINE JUST AFTERA
STORM
Commentary: ‘Brilliant Sunshine Just After a Storm’ shows therelief and joy that can result after a ‘Storm’ has come through,sweeping away many of the elements that have been cloggingthe environment. ‘After a Storm’ the ‘Sunshine’ can appear more‘Brilliant’ than it usually does. In fact, the light can appear tobe rather mystical and eerie. The moisture still in the air acts
to amplify and intensify light, hence, everything around looks
more vivid and beautiful especially compared to how it seemedduring the ‘Storm’. Things that felt threatening or charged-up candissolve and disappear, sometimes very quickly. The remaining“mist” of an emotional ‘Storm’ can cause intense, positiveemotions as the weather and the atmosphere clears up and thebirds start to sing again and life gets back to normal.
Oracle: This Symbol indicates a clearing of the air and theresolving of issues that have been building up. The ‘Sunshine’shows that the worst is probably over and at last the situation canresolve and recovery begin. There is probably still work to be
done, but for now enjoy the release and the pleasure of renewal.Bask in the sunlight a little and then get on with the work ofmopping or cleaning up the remnants. Another aspect of thisSymbol can show a situation that goes to and fro in extremes,
finding it hard to strike a happy medium. Perhaps you need to tryto avoid such extremes, and work on achieving a more constantstate of wellbeing. Sometimes we need sadness to fully appreciate
happiness and, vice versa. Enjoy the ‘Sunshine’ - you’ve comethrough the ‘Storm’.
Keywords: The warmth of renewal. Things glistening withraindrops. Extremes. Recovery. Hallucinogenic drugs. Extremeweather, e.g. El Nino. Religious experiences. Brighter worlds.Optimistic feelings after hopes dashed. Relief and joy. The sunbreaking through clouds. Overcoming crisis. The longing for rain
to quench dryness. Floods of emotion. Negative ions bringingrelief. Rainbows. Brilliant light that brings joy.
The Caution: Assuming that the storm will soon return. Beingstuck in fear. Manic depression. Distorted viewpoints. Bouncingaround from one emotion to another. Invoking arguments becauseof the reward of “making up”. Enjoyment of conflict. Plumbingproblems. Refusing to move into the sunlight. Bi-polar behaviour.On-off behaviour.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 16
If we had no winter, the springwould not be so pleasant. Ifwe did not sometimes taste ofadversity, prosperity would notbe so welcome.
Anne Bradstreet
Most of the shadows of this lifeare caused by standing in one’s
own sunshine.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Where there is sunshine, there isalso shade.Kashmiri Proverb
The world goes up and the
world goes down, And thesunshine follows the rain;
And yesterday's sneer andyesterday's frown, Can nevercome over again.Charles Kingsley
The hopeful man sees successwhere others see failure,
sunshine where others seeshadows and storm.O. S. Marsden
All sunshine makes the desert.
Saudi Arabian Proverb
The wise man in the stormprays to God, not for safetyfrom danger, but for deliverancefrom fear.Ralph Waldo Emerson
They sicken of the calm who
know the storm.
Dorothy Parker

5-17: VOLUNTEER CHURCH CHOIR MAKES
SOCIAL EVENT OF A REHEARSAL
Commentary: The ‘Volunteer Church Choir’ is pictured here.They come together to make a ‘Social Event of a Rehearsal’.Although their voices will often hit the right pitch, sometimesthey won't. As they are a ‘Volunteer Church Choir’, the issue isnot the quality of people's voices or being able to hold a tune, butmore the sharing of voices and the enjoyment that such gatheringscan bring. Criticism of how folks “sing” should be left at the door.Each and every person should be encouraged to contribute what
they can, to raise his or her voice in a celebration of spiritual unity
and the enjoyment of life.
Oracle: You may feel the need to be with those of like mind,feelings and aspirations. Take the opportunity to share in their
expression of spiritual joy and shared faith. Unified voices needto be heard, and can uplift all that hear them. Coming togetherto contribute to the community without thought of more tangiblerewards will bring a sense of belonging and fellowship on manylevels. Bringing even the smallest tokens and gifts to the gatheringwill be appreciated in some way. Helpers may be required tocome to the aid of others. There may be a need to test things outto see if they stand up to reality. Whether you receive rewardsor are paid for the work you do or not, there may be a need toinject more fun and lightheartedness. Ultimately, if everyone iscomfortable and friendly with each other, communication and thequality of work will improve. Even a gesture such as drinks afterwork can bring people closer together. Overall, everybody shouldfeel happy to be around people of like mind; not pressurized to
put in a top-rate performance.
Keywords: Making the most of any situation. Feelings oftogetherness. Rehearsing without worrying about what might
happen. Doing things without thought of reward. Sharingcommunity. Catching up on what others are doing. Buskingand street singing. Learning to open up the throat. Charitywork. Volunteers. Sharing food and drink. Small gifts for others.
Dedication to ideals. Extending yourself by mixing in. Gatherings.Church or school halls.
The Caution: Trivializing the purpose of gatherings. Being afraidor reticent to lift up one’s voice. Standing in the backgroundbecause of the belief that one is not “good” enough to join in.
Criticizing others for not contributing enough. Feeling rippedoff. Issues of being "in the club".
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 17
We do not exist for ourselves.Thomas Merton
You give but littlewhen yougive of your possessions. It iswhen you give of yourself thatyou truly give.Kahlil Gibran
Poor is the church without music.Irish Saying
If every American donated five
hours a week, it would equalthe labor of 20 million full-timevolunteers.
Whoopi Goldberg
The first time |sang in thechurch choir; two hundred
people changed their religion.
Fred Allen
Time is important to mebecause / want to sing long
enough to leave a message.
I'm used to singing in churcheswhere nobody would darestop me until the Lord arrives!Mahalia Jackson
Please do not shoot the piano
player; he's doing the best that he can.Anon
The choir always tittered andwhispered all through theservice. There was once a church
choir that was not ill-bred, but!have forgotten where it was.Mark Twain

5-18: A CHEMIST CONDUCTS AN
EXPERIMENT FOR HIS STUDENTS
Commentary: A ‘Chemist’ is shown ‘Conducting an ExperimentFor His Students’. Chemistry is the manipulation of elements ofnature to create better or more valuable things. It is through ourconsciousness that we manipulate our environment. Throughthese efforts and the “accidents” that can happen, we come closer
to an understanding of creation and perhaps an experience of
God. The ‘Chemist’ requires the right ingredients and equipment
and his ‘Students’ need to pay attention to what he does. Still,
mistakes and miscalculations may occur. On a day-to-day basis,we use tools such as our mind to create awareness. By teaching
people what we know, we change our understanding of the natureof our environment. It is likely that the ‘Chemist’ has conductedthis particular ‘Experiment’ many times; still each time it can
inspire amazement and awe.
Oracle: The ‘Chemist’ can be someone who is interested in trying
something new. Even with all the appropriate credentials andexperience, there may be a feeling of being unsure of the actualoutcome. However, ‘The Chemist’ may be someone who is notprepared to take any risks and is performing the exact same mixof ingredients, again and again. The creative ‘Chemist’ knows thata mix of new ingredients can lead to new creations, solutions,observations and discoveries. You may find yourself discoveringnew things in an authoritative or observant position. The messagefor you in either situation, whether you are the ‘Chemist’ or a
‘Student’, is to pay attention to the small as well as the large details.
Be prepared to take a few calculated risks with this situation, it
may lead to new and satisfying solutions. Something unexpected
and exciting may happen!
Keywords: Alchemy. Stepping out of the usual rules and takinga risk. New and untried procedures. Syllabus and education.Wisdom being passed on. Putting things “to the test”. Throwingout what doesn’t stand up. Ingredients. Bunsen burners. Test
tubes. Microscopes. Seeking rational answers. Science andchemistry. Leading by example. The thrill of discovery.
The Caution: Always going “by the rules of the book” leadingto inertia and suppression of creative ideas. Being afraid to take
a chance because the situation may get out of control. Refusingto reveal one’s formula, lest it be copied. Narrow viewpoints.Skepticism. Being a stickler for conservative science. Not trusting
other’s abilities. Chemicals that pollute and distort.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 18
Observation is a passivescience, experimentation an
active science.Claude Bernard
Hell, there are no rules here—
we're trying to accomplishsomething.Thomas Alva Edison
Everybody’s a mad scientist,
and life is their lab. We’re alltrying to experiment to findaway to live, to solve problems,
to fend off madness and chaos.David Cronenberg
A theory can be proved by
experiment; but no path leads
from experiment to the birth of
a theory.
Albert Einstein
I have nothing new to teach theworld, Truth and Nonviolence
are as old as the hills. All |havedone is to try experiments inboth on as vast ascale as!
could.
Mahatma Gandhi
I have not failed. I’ve just found
10,000 ways that won't work.
Thomas Alva Edison
The true scientist never loses thefaculty of amusement. It is theessence of his being.J. Robert Oppenheimer
The fatal futility of fact.Henry James

5-19: A HOUSEBOAT PARTY CROWDED
WITH REVELERS;THE WATER
REFLECTS ITS LIGHTS
Commentary: A ‘Houseboat Party’ is shown. It is ‘Crowded WithRevelers’ and ‘The Water Reflects its Lights’. This pictures a need
for lightening up, relaxing and spending time with like-minded
individuals. This ‘Party’ can represent a situation where peoplecome together, eat, drink and share their thoughts and have agood time. The partygoers, the ‘Revelers’, may all be enjoyingthemselves and having a great time, but it may seem rather short-lived, unstable or unreal.
Oracle: Although you are probably in a situation of definite
structure and form, you may find that it needs to be changed fromthe normal routine and infused with unusual and unorthodoxpossibilities. However, one problem with ‘Houseboat Parties’ is
the inability to leave when you please. When you're socializing,seeing a crowd of friendly faces is comforting when you have nochoice but to stay. If you are not enjoying what’s going on, it maybe that you’re stuck with people you'd really rather not associatewith. Who’s steering or in charge of the ‘Boat’ you’re on? Howlong is this journey, and where will the ‘Houseboat Party’ endup? You may feel a long way from home, and that you want toget off. If you can relax about the situation you're in, you mayfind yourself with fabulous friends and in great surroundings.This is often easier said than done - some people are not able
to mix with people they’re not familiar with, especially if theyfeel unsure about the circumstances they find themselves in. On
a ‘Houseboat’, this can be especially true. This being said, one
does have to take risks every now and then. Enjoy the situation
to its fullest, but remember that sooner or later you will have toget back to a more everyday, anchored life.
Keywords: Emotive social pleasure. Joining with others in anadventurous spirit. Cleopatra-style parties. The issue of knowingwhere one’s going. Claustrophobia. Being cast adrift. Delicate
social balances. Moored in water or on ground. Leisure times that
are fun and free-floating. People getting ‘out of it’.
The Caution: Trapping people into ideals of pleasure. Self-indulgence. Not knowing “where” the party is going to be or
finish up. Not being anchored in reality. Feeling “unmoored” andunable to disembark. Nowhere to permanently dock. Unknown
destinations. Feeling trapped. Choppy seas. No one at the wheel.
Springing a leak. Wanting to bail out. Tipping the boat.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 19
These three take crooked ways:carts, boats, and musicians.
Hindu Proverb
We may have all come on
different ships, but we're in the
same boat now.Martin Luther King, Jr
Are we having fun yet?Modern Saying
Are we there yet?Modern Saying
Besides winning, the most fun
thing is getting out there and
mixing it up with friends; it’s thecompetition.Al Unser, Jr.
There are some sluggish men
who are improved by drinking;as there are fruits that are not
good until they are rotten.
Samuel Johnson
So let's fill up our heads withping-pong balls and go out and
shoot the moon.Paul Smyth
Here we are, going downthe river like Anthony andCleopatra on that barge.
The African Queen
Let's have one other gaudy
night: call to me all my sad
captains; fill our bowls oncemore; let's mock the midnightbell.William Shakespeare

5-20: AMERICAN INDIANS PERFORM A
RITUAL TO THE SUN
Commentary: ‘American Indians’ are pictured here ‘Performing aRitual to the Sun’. Twice a year, each tribe performs a Sun Dance,a sacred ritual that is held over four days that honors grandfather
sun and the four directions. The people respect and revere both
their society and the natural environment. The warriors of the tribe
endure trials of pain and endurance to prove their strength, stamina
and ability to protect those in their care. They gather together with
kindred spirits to pay homage to the natural elements that sustain
them in their lives. They do this to get back to the natural elements;
they respond with their intuitive feelings rather than logic. In oureveryday modern lives there’s a tendency to forget to take time out
to ‘Perform’ grounding ‘Rituals’.
Oracle: The ‘Sun’ in this ‘Ritual’ can relate to one’s sense of selfhood,identity and ego. A good, healthy sense of self and ego is wonderful
and should be celebrated. There can be a feeling of belonging toa culture with shared visions, regardless of whether you actually
come from it. However, it is possible that someone in this situationhas been caught up in the glamor of ‘Ritual’, ignoring the truepurpose of it. Perhaps there is a need to draw the ego back into
perspective, especially if it has become over-inflated. Traditional‘Rituals’, or ceremonies, can inspire people to action. They often
bring renewal and relief to people, and solutions to situations. Tools
like affirmations and meditation are useful to clarify goals and
ambitions. It is important, however, not to merely rely on ‘Rituals’to magically produce what we want. Use these methods to enhanceand contribute meaning to your life. Take a moment to rememberyour relationships with the earth and her people.
Keywords: Restoring spirit. Rituals and worship. The desire toreturn to nature. Shining through one’s life, not through social
credentials. Sweat lodges. Drum-beating. Celebrating a unique
heritage. Participation with nature’s cycles. Eclipses. Smudging.
Reveling in the larger picture leading to belonging and oneness.
Fire, passion, spontaneity, sacrifice. Restoring sacredness. American
Indian traditions. Vision quests. Fasting. Courage. Conquering badhabits and attitudes. The truth of conviction. Prayer. Eagle feathers.
Baptisms of fire.
The Caution: Egoistic responses to life situations leading to narrow
responses. Relying on rituals to manifest magic. Losing sight of themeaning of ceremony. Holding onto tradition without intuiting newand modern truths. Living in the past. Cult worship. Losing identity
in one’s own culture. Sunstroke.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 20
Life is a pure flame, and we liveby an invisible sun within us.Thomas Browne
What is to give light mustendure burning.
Viktor Frankl
The beauty of the world and
the orderly arrangement ofeverything celestial makesus confess that there is anexcellent and eternal nature,
which ought to be worshippedand admired by all mankind.Marcus Tullius Cicero
Hide not your talents, theyfor use were made. What's a
sundial in the shade?Benjamin Franklin
Be glad of life because it givesyou a chance to love and to
work and to play and to look upat stars.Henry Van Dyke
The truest expression of apeople is in its dances and itsmusic. Bodies never lie.Agnes De Mille
What is to give light mustendure the burning.Viktor E, Frankl
An odd thing occurs inthe minds of Americans
when Indian civilization inmentioned: little or nothing.Paula Gunn Allen

5-21: INTOXICATED CHICKENS DIZZILY
FLAP THEIR WINGS TRYING TO FLY
Commentary: ‘Intoxicated Chickens Dizzily Flap Their WingsTrying to Fly’ is a rather amusing image. The ‘IntoxicatedChickens’ have been fired up by something, or eaten someseed that has become fermented. Having been ‘Intoxicated’,they are ‘Dizzily Flapping Their Wings Trying to Fly’. They haveforgotten their true limitations and are trying to do more thanthey are usually physically capable of. This Symbol can indicatethings such as giddiness, mistakes, headaches and regrets fromill-conceived projects.
Oracle: This Symbol can indicate somebody actually losing their
sense of reality, or their sensible mind. One's first attempts at anew experience may prove less than elegant or skillful. There ispossibly an attempt to do too much too soon. Perhaps you have
not thoroughly planned what you want to achieve. Trying to
accomplish something a little too eagerly and before the propertraining has been completed can get you nowhere, no matterhow much energy and enthusiasm is expended. Making a list of
long and short-term goals will help to clarify your ideas. Soonthings will improve and you can laugh about the mishaps andmistakes that were made when you started out. Being confused, or‘Intoxicated’, can be solved relatively easily, with some constraint.Further, it can be drink or drugs that caused this ‘Intoxication’, orit can be unrestrained happiness and enthusiasm. Moderate anyor all of these factors and you will gain a clearer vision and have a
deeper focus on your situation. Either way, try not to worry abouthow much is actually being achieved. Right now, find enjoymentin this ‘Intoxication’, but remember to come back to earth whenthe feelings diminish.
Keywords: False courage. Inexperience. Trying to do somethingbeyond the bounds of experience or possibility. Getting “out ofit” in order to escape something. Getting all het-up over tiny or
illusive prospects. Alcohol and drugs and the allure of escapism.
Drinking binges. Ecstasy. Hangovers. Attempting to do the
impossible.
The Caution: Giddiness, lightheadedness, unwanted side effects.
Getting nowhere. Inability to ground things in reality. Making afool of one’s self. Intoxication that inhibits seeing what's reallypossible. Alcoholism and drug habits. Losing reality. Mindlessness
that confuses or misleads. Going too far too fast. Forgetting whoor where you are.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 21
The very best addictive drugs are produced by our bodieswhen we’ in romantic/eroticlove.Barbara Sher
I like liquor—its taste and its
effects—and that is just the reason why I never drink it.
Stonewall Jackson
Life itself is the proper binge.Julia Child
We never really know whatstupidity is until we have
experimented on ourselves.
Paul Gauguin
When a man is intoxicated byalcohol, he can recover, butwhen intoxicated by power, heseldom recovers.James F. Byrnes
Look, I really don’t want to wax
philosophic, but|will say that if
you're alive, you got to flap your
arms and legs, you got to jump
around a lot, you got to make
alot of noise... or at least yourthoughts should be noisy andcolorful and lively.Mel Brooks
The aim of life is to live,andto live means to be aware,joyously, drunkenly, serenely,divinely aware.
Henry Miller

5-22: A CARRIER PIGEON FULFILLING ITS
MISSION
Commentary: ‘A Carrier Pigeon Fulfilling its Mission’ shows thecompletion of a task, delivering a message or completing a voyageor ‘Mission’. There is a clear sense of purpose and direction,even a sense of some divine guidance. ‘Carrier Pigeons’ havea magnetic compass that allows them to know where they are
and where they are going. They can pinpoint their destinationexactly. Knowing and finding the route to their destination is anatural part of the 'Pigeon’s' life.
Oracle: This Symbol shows that you may have to let yournatural relationship with the environment guide you intuitively
and instinctively. We are most naturally inclined to follow ameaningful path if we just allow ourselves to respond to our innerguidance. It often feels strange to release control or inhibitionsand to just “go with the flow”, but this is not a meaningless anddirectionless destination. As this ‘Pigeon’ is ‘Fulfilling its Mission’you know that the end is in sight, and there is a prize to be wonfor bringing a message to those who need it. The reward can befinancial, emotional, or otherwise somehow personally gratifying.The ‘Carrier Pigeon’ needs to deliver a message or bridge distancesbetween people. However, this ‘Mission’ may not necessarily be
positive or personally rewarding. The message being conveyed
may be harmful or malicious gossip or merely useless information.
In that case, the outcome may be less than desirable. This Symbolshows the importance of messages getting through to those whoneed to hear them. A special job that one must fulfill can lead tohaving a sense of duty or place. Whatever the ‘Mission’ is, thisSymbol indicates that done well, with love and awareness, it will
be ‘Fulfilled’ and carried out successfully.
Keywords: Bringer of good tidings and news. Creating lines
of communication. Completing tasks. Feeling like one is on
a mission. Finding out what’s truly going on. Having a senseof destiny. Receiving orders from a higher authority. Beingmagnetically aligned. Pigeons, doves. Not being put off the trackno matter what. Mail. Flying home.
The Caution: Gossip. Messages that are not useful to anyoneor are outworn and old. Needing recognition and applause fordoing simple things. Useless information. Putting a lot of effort
into something that is not worth it. “Stool pigeons”. Workinguntil one drops from exhaustion. Being so one-pointed that youforget other parts of your life.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 22
Here is the test to find whetheryour mission on earth is finished.Ifyou're alive, it isn’t.Richard Bach
Houston, Tranquillity Base here.The Eagle has landed.Neil Armstrong
That’s one small step for man,one giant leap for mankind.
Neil Armstrong
I got the message.All of us get
the message, sooner or later. Ifyou get it before it’s too late orbefore you're too old, you'll pull
through all right.
Nat King Cole
Whenever you have truth it
must be given with love, or the
message and the messenger willbe rejected.
Mahatma Gandhi
When you discover your mission,you will feel its demand. It willfill you with enthusiasm andaburning desire to get to workonit.W. Clement Stone
If there were any justice in thisworld, people would occasionallybe permitted to fly over pigeons.Gene Brown
Don't shoot the messenger.Old Saying

5-23: A BAREBACK RIDER IN A CIRCUS
DISPLAYS HER DANGEROUS SKILL
Commentary: ‘A Bareback Rider in a Circus Displays Her
Dangerous Skill’. She puts herself in the middle of the action,taking risks that are second nature to her. Training has preparedher to perform tricks and maneuvers that seem awe-inspiring,well timed and carefully planned. She is so well rehearsed thateven the most dangerous stunts are done with ease. These things,however, can be so daring or dangerous that others would havetrouble even imagining doing them, let alone actually attempting
to do them. She has an amazing sense of balance and belief inher center of gravity.
Oracle: You may believe passionately in what you are doing,
but in order to prove yourself to others you need to present
your abilities and feelings boldly and skillfully. You may need to
be fully prepared to rush into the “ring” and show what you’re
capable of. This done correctly will impress others, and may
cause others to be in awe of your talent and the risks and dangersinvolved. However, remember to be wary of “running into the
ring” unrehearsed, unprepared or in the wrong frame of mind. Asense of timing and the knowledge of what you're doing is critical,
as is being unruffled that others may be watching to see how wellyou succeed. If you have confidence in your abilities, there’s a
good chance that you won't be “bucked” or “thrown off”. You
will have the ability to complete your mission and be applaudedby others for your achievement. If, however, you are scared stiffof taking on this challenge, do you think you should chance it?If you are merely looking for applause, acclaim or recognition
from others, without being sure of what you're doing, this may
indeed be a dangerous and foolhardy stunt. Do you feel you have
the balance, skills and courage to do what is necessary?
Keywords: Defying gravity. Controlling one’s animal instincts.
Courage and mastery over one’s energies. Shows of strength.
Situations where one might get “bucked”. Rushing in where angelsfear to tread. Being shown in the media. The allure of drama anddanger. Life as a circus or carnival. Amazing displays of skill.
Superheroes. Comic book characters. Impressing people withwell-rehearsed skills.
The Caution: “Showing off”, losing control and falling. Demandingattention. Looking for applause. Fooling with nature’s energies.Arousing or controlling animal passions. Acting wildly and notthinking about the consequences.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 23
He who rides a tiger is afraid todismount.
Chinese Proverb
Being on the tightrope is living;
everything else is waiting.Karl Wallenda
I sit astride life like a bad riderona horse.! only owe it to thehorse's good nature that !amnot thrown off at this verymoment.Ludwig Wittgenstein
CIRCUS, n.A place where horses,
ponies and elephants arepermitted to see men, womenand children acting the fool.Ambrose Bierce
I get enough exercise justpushing my luck.
Bumper Sticker
If you can’t ride two horses atonce, you shouldn't be in thecircus.G. McAllister
Better ride on an ass that carries
me than a horse that throwsme.Romanian Proverb
Will is to grace as the horse is tothe rider.Saint Augustine
Noone reaches a high positionwithout daring.
Publilius Syrus

5-24: TOTALLY CONCENTRATED UPON
INNER SPIRITUAL ATTAINMENT,
A MANIS SITTING IN A STATE OF
NEGLECT OF HIS BODY
Commentary: ‘Totally Concentrated Upon Inner SpiritualAttainment, a Man is Sitting in a State of Neglect of His Body’. This
brings to mind the Hindu yogi. The yogi can be so focused on hisinner state of being that he doesn’t notice his more earthly physical
needs. He may be able to sit in one position for a very long time, or
to use his body in ways that would make others uncomfortable. He
may not eat or drink for days. The ‘Body’ may, or may not, actuallybe ‘Neglected’, but there may be a desire to put the body’s needson hold while he concentrates on more important or immediatespiritual or mental needs and values.
Oracle: There can be a feeling of imbalance at the moment. Someaspects of your life may be put on hold in favor of one central issuethat has taken over. This can lead to a loss of holistic balance and,possibly, being misunderstood by others. Being so committed to
spiritual or emotional concerns can lead to losing touch with more
immediate, physical matters, but it can lead to a higher state ofspiritual being. Although spiritual concerns are very important
during our lifetime, remember that we also have a physical life tolead. This Symbol can show the opposite polarity: Obsession withthe body and physical fitness. As human beings, however, we arenot supposed to concentrate solely on one or the other. We muststrive to live equally in both. Our ‘Bodies’, minds, hearts and spiritsare gifts to us, and should be treated with care. When this Symbolis around, it can also indicate people getting a high from not eating,through fasting, etc. It can lead to many physical problems such as
eating disorders, etc. However, physical fitness can be achieved bydirecting the body to do things using willpower and focus. A senseof equilibrium is the key.
Keywords: Issues of how we view and value our bodies. Fixation onexercise and nutrition at the expense of more spiritual or emotionalissues. Eating disorders. Gymnasiums and physical fitness issues.Spiritual gurus. Yoga and yogis. Living for the future. Extreme states
of meditation. Total concentration. Breatharians.
The Caution: Not enough attention to the body or physical needs. Alack of focus on more immediate issues such as food and exercise ORforgetting spiritual, emotional or mental concerns through a focuson the body or physical aspects. Too many things on one’s mind.Obsessions leading to imbalance. Not eating or drinking.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 24
The man whose whole activityis diverted to inner meditationbecomes insensible to all hissurroundings. His passions aremere appearances, being sterile.They are dissipated in futileimaginings, producing nothingexternal to themselves.Emile Durkheim
Self-loving is not so vile a sin,
my liege, as self-neglecting.
William Shakespeare
I've never met a healthy personwho worried much about hishealth or a good person whoworried much about his soul.
John B.S. Haldane
Meditation has been defined as
“the cessation of active eternalthought.”
H. P. Blavatsky
lf aman watches three football
games in a row, he should bedeclared legally dead.Erma Bombeck
Be careless in your dress ifyou
must, but keep a tidy soul.Mark Twain
In our era, the road to holiness
necessarily passes through the
world of action.
Dag Hammarskjold
He who conceals his diseasecannot expect to be cured.Proverb

5-25: A LARGE CAMEL CROSSING A VAST
AND FORBIDDING DESERT
Commentary: ‘A Large Camel Crossing a Vast and Forbidding
Desert’ is an image of endurance, strength and determination.The ‘Camel’ has the ability to overcome challenges and obstaclesto complete a ‘Vast and Forbidding’ journey. The ‘Large Camel’doesn’t realize how amazing and noteworthy this feat ofendurance is; he’s merely getting on with what he must do. It’spart of his nature. Human beings, on the other hand, find goingso far on so little reserves in such 'Forbidding' conditions verychallenging. Further, the ‘Camel’ may also have a rider or a heavyload to carry. It can feel like something almost impossible or toomuch to ask of somebody.
Oracle: Your situation may already feel like an arduous journey,
but there is still probably further to go. Be confident that you have
the reserves to survive and the endurance to succeed. It may be
that the source of this energy or confidence is stored in someone
else. Expecting someone to be there to provide sustenance andrevitalization can be a lot to ask of them. It can be a great sacrificeor burden, and it is often a family member or very close friendthat will fulfill this duty. The important thing to remember isthat this is a long and difficult journey, but whoever is doing it is
purpose built for it and capable of achieving it. Issues to do withself-sufficiency may arise. Mental and emotional self-control arevery necessary. Another perspective could show someone who’stotally comfortable doing the “hard yards”. It may look daunting
and impossible to others, but to them it is familiar and perhapseven comforting. As the ‘Camel’ is prepared for long stretchesin the ‘Desert’, so too are you for the task before you. Make sure
you have what you need with you.
Keywords: Completing a journey. Protecting oneself fromspiritual “sunstroke”. Tests of karma. Taking on daunting tasks.Taking one step at a time. Feeling totally at home. Provisionsthat nurture and satisfy. Camels, caravans, oasis, mirages, water,deserts. Stamina and fortitude. Crossing to the other side.Endurance. Thirst. Survival against the odds. Transport. Badbacks. Back packs. Cargo. Saddling up.
The Caution: Not preparing properly and running out of reserves.Feeling weighed down and in danger of not making it through.Not seeing the big picture. Lack of sustenance. Big plans with noback up. Taking on huge tasks when one shouldn't. Being dauntedby huge projects. Mirages that confuse objectives.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 25
What makes the desert
beautiful is that somewhere it
hides a well.Antoine de Saint Exupery
Only those who risk going toofar can possibly find out how
far one can go.T.S. Eliot
The Promised Land alwayslies on the other side of awilderness.Havelock Ellis
The man who goes alone canstart today; but he who travelswith another must wait till thatother is ready.
Henry David Thoreau
If you're going through hell,
keep going.
Winston Churchill
My ancestors wandered lost inthe wilderness for forty yearsbecause even in biblical times,men would not stop to ask for
directions.Elayne Boosler
Trust in God — but tie yourcamel tight.Persian Proverb
Much has been written aboutthe beauty, the stillness, theterror of the desert but little
about its flies.Belle Livingstone

5-26: AFTER A HEAVY STORM, A RAINBOW
APPEARS
Commentary: ‘After a Heavy Storm, a Rainbow’ shows thepromise of relief, sunshine and beauty after a difficult passage.
The ‘Rainbow’ is a reminder of God’s covenant that was made
with every living creature of the earth; the promise that He
would never flood the world again. The ‘Storm’ may have beendifficult to endure with deluges, threatening claps of thunder and
lightning, and difficult, torrid times. There can be great shocks,but as there is the promise of the ‘Rainbow’, you can be certain
that the end result will be okay.
Oracle: Although great obstacles to recovery often arise, for the
moment you need to be reassured by signs of better times coming.This can be difficult to believe at first, it can be hard to trust thatthe ‘Storm’ is not going to swing back round again. Take a lookaround, when you can, and assess what actual damage has been
done by the ‘Storm’. The ‘Heavy Storm’ can inflict such damageand violence that it is hard to imagine things the way they werebefore it hit. There’s a need to focus on hope to help you out ofthis dilemma, although it can be a struggle to persevere in thesesituations, and the possibility of a ‘Rainbow’ at the end can seemalmost laughable. However, keep in mind that although everyonehas to go through the ‘Storms’ and darkness that life throws atus they are rarely permanent. After the difficulties have passed,
the calm that follows has a beautiful and “relieved” quality to it.Also, we are far more inclined to appreciate the happy times afterwe've been through the tempest. It may be time to “smell theroses”. Try wearing colorful clothes, opening the windows andgetting out into the fresh air. Appreciate the good things that areavailable right now. Remember; without the ‘Storm’ there wouldbe no possibility of the blessing of the ‘Rainbow’.
Keywords: Release from stressful situations. The light of spiritreturning to infuse with energy. Euphoria. Rushes of endorphins.Relief. The sun coming out whilst dark clouds are still in theair. The joy of survival. Rainbows and light. Piercing throughdarkness. Reminders of the good things in life. Peace restored.
The Caution: Having selfish thoughts about the rewards inherentin every external sign or “pot of gold”. Seeking storms orarguments and trouble to stir things up. Enjoyment and promotion
of conflict. Violence and destruction. Carnage. Not seeing the
beauty around. Blocked drains and emotions.
Leo 26
Birds sing after a storm; why
shouldn't people feel as free todelight in whatever remains tothem?Rose Kennedy
Be thou the rainbow to the
storms of life, the eveningbeam that smiles the cloudsaway, and tints tomorrow withprophetic ray!Lord Byron
We live in a rainbow of chaos.Paul Cezanne
And when it rains on yourparade, look up rather thandown. Without the rain, there
would be no rainbow.
Jerry Chin
Walk on a rainbow trail; walkon a trail of song, and all aboutyou will be beauty. There is away out of every dark mist, overa rainbow trail.Edward A, Navajo
The way I see it, if you want therainbow, you gotta put up with the rain.Dolly Parton
The rainbow would be evenmore beautiful if the show wasnot for free.Antilles Proverb
The soul would have norainbow had the eyes no tears.
John Vance Cheney

5-27: DAYBREAK—THE LUMINESCENCE
OF DAWN IN THE EASTERN SKY
Commentary: ‘Daybreak—the Luminescence of Dawn in
the Eastern Sky’ is a wonderful image of renewal, hope and
possibility for the future. This Symbol beautifully illustrates theemergence of light from night to day—there is a ‘Luminescencein the Eastern Sky’. It is the time when night and day both seem
to exist at the same time. There is a little of both as the ‘stars’
are still visible whilst the light of the sun slowly intensifies and
claims the earth.
Oracle: This is a time for making plans, resolutions or meditatingon any new tasks that are ahead. It seems there is finally a chancefor a new beginning—to start over. Imagination can be strongwith expectations and enthusiasm running high. These thingscan put us in the perfect frame of mind and give us the energyfor the ‘Day’ ahead. In regards to your situation, things have beensacrificed and there may be a certain emptiness. Regardless, youmust see the light and move forward again. It is now time tostop operating in the dark. New ideas, new opportunities, newperspectives, new realizations are emerging. Don’t dwell on what
has passed away or what is yet to be. In order to fully realize the
potential of this Symbol, try performing some morning rituals.Things like meditation, yoga, tai chi or going for a walk canprepare one’s mind and body for the day ahead. These can really
awaken both body and spirit. How do you feel when you wakeup? This may help you to understand what’s lying before you.
Recognize the coming of this ‘Daybreak’, this new day, and listen
to the birds, watch the beauty of the morning sky and soak upthe environment at ‘Dawn’. Something is likely to have changed,
even if it is just your perspective.
Keywords: Gradual realization of opportunities. New cyclesbeginning. Feeling that one can leave the past behind, finally.
Transitions between darkness and light. Meditation and yoga.Scenes of awe and amazement. Things slowly being revealed.
Dawning awareness. Light from the east. Awakening. Lookingto the future. Luminescent light.
The Caution: Being fearful and distrusting new experiences orsituations. Thinking that everything will be O.K. “tomorrow” (.e.not today). Closing things down when they should be opening
up. Feeling like one’s asleep and can’t wake up. Staying in bedand missing out on new opportunities. Not moving on when it’snecessary.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 27
Keep your face to the sunshineand you cannot see the
shadows.Helen Keller
Faith is the bird that feels thelight when the dawn is still dark.Rabindranath Tagore
Only that day dawns to which
we are awake. There is more
day to dawn. The sun is but amorning star.Henry David Thoreau
In saffron-colored mantle, from
the tides of ocean rose themorning to bring light to godsand men.Homer
More light!Goethe—last words
One may not reach the dawn
save by the path of the night.Kahlil Gibran
Dawn does not come twice toawaken aman.
Saudi Arabian Proverb
If every day is an awakening,you will never grow old. You willjust keep growing.
Gail Sheehy
The sun puts on a wonderfulshow at daybreak, yet mostpeople in the audience go onsleeping.
Ada Teixeria

5-28: MANY LITTLE BIRDS CHIRPING ON
THE LIMB OF A LARGE TREE
Commentary: ‘Many Little Birds Chirping on the Limb of a LargeTree’ is an image of fluttering and chirping, movement and song.The ‘Tree’ can seem packed with chattering and movement and
yet the ‘Birds’ can be quite invisible. ‘Birds’ gathering, to chatteris common, particularly at the end of the day. The Symbol canreflect things like advertising, political campaigns, egotisticalprattling and even children chatting and playing together.
Oracle: The common element in this Symbol is the attempt tohave one’s voice heard above all the noise and din of the everyday
world. It can be hard to gain the attention of others when there’sso much competition around. This also can be true when tryingto listen to your own inner voice. It can feel like your needs, oryour voice, are just one of so many, with little prospect or ability
to have your ideas, opinions or plans heard. Perhaps you have a
viewpoint or a project such as a book that you want to get “outthere”. There may seem to be too many points of view, opinions
or options now. Although the overall situation is probably secureand stable, there are still some confusions to be resolved. Theremay be many people or personalities that one has to deal with
or look after. Further, you may be vulnerable to lots of chattergoing on in your mind. It can sometimes sound like a cacophony
of sound, where the intuitive voice or wisdom is drowned out by
noise from the emotional world inside. When this happens it isuseful to use a tool, such as the Sabian Symbols, to help you focus
on your true objective. Try to relax and gain some perspectiveuntil things become a little more settled.
Keywords: Gathering with people of like mind. Sharing ideas.Huge structures where people can get lost in the crowd. Bigbusiness, government and bureaucracy. Multilevel marketing.Databases. The Internet and chat groups. Books, tapes and cds.Publishing houses. Competition. Telephone switchboards. Tryingto gain attention.
The Caution: Many voices—some heard, some not. Being confusedor immobilized by too much advice or information. Too manysounds. Having trouble hearing the essential truth. A scattering
of energies. Not getting a word in edgeways. Everybody talking
and nobody listening. Being one of many. Noise and distraction.
Staying with the mediocre. The masses. Being invisible. Useless
chattering or noise.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 28
The higher you go, the widerthe spread of the network ofcommunication that will makeor break you. It extends not only
to more people below, but to
new levels above. And it extends
all around, to endless otherdepartments and interestsinteracting with yours.Donald Walton
After all is said and done, moreis said than done.American Proverb
All of our operators are busy.Your call is important to us andwill be answered by the first
available operator.The constant recurringmessage of business
The eagle suffers little birds tosing and is not careful what
they mean thereby.William Shakespeare
Gossip is nature’s telephone.Sholom Aleichem
I've suffered from all of thehang-ups knownand none is asbad as the telephone.Richard Armour
If the first person who answers
the phone cannot answer yourquestion it’s a bureaucracy. If
the first person can answer yourquestion, it’s a miracle.Gerald F. Lieberman

5-29: A MERMAID HAS CLIMBED TO THE
ROCKY SHORE OF A BLEAK COAST;
SHE AWAITS THE PRINCE WHO WILL
BRING HER IMMORTALITY
Commentary: The ‘Mermaid Has Climbed to the Rocky Shoreof a Bleak Coast’, shows a woman who has previously merelyexisted in the waters of life and is now ready to emerge into amore conscious existence as an individual in her own right. Sheis willing to ‘Climb the Rocky Shore’ no matter how ‘Bleak’ the'Coast' may be. She may have to leave her home and past behind
in order to move into a new life, a new relationship or newbeginning of some kind. She will learn to better communicateher emotions, thoughts and ideas. In being able to more fully
verbalize and express herself and to “walk her talk”, she can
find her place and sense of purpose: the 'Immortality' that can
be achieved in this new reality.
Oracle: You must have belief in your ability to cope as anindividual emerging into new arenas. ‘The Prince Who WillBring Her Immortality’, can show the seeking of perfection in
one’s self through relationships. Be careful not to project toomuch authority onto your partner. This can lead to feelings ofinsecurity and being out of one’s depth. You may be expectingothers to acknowledge your existence, possibly feeling invisibleuntil they do. However, other people, and probably someone inparticular, may bring you insights into your capabilities, talents
and attributes so that you can become more of what you’re meant
to become. The female/mermaid, male/prince doesn’t necessarily
always translate into these gender definitions. The ‘Mermaid’may indeed be male, waiting for his “princess” to come to make
his life complete. Whichever, how will the partner cope when
the ‘Mermaid’ truly gains her own feet and voice? With this newsense of belonging, ideas can be brought into reality in a newworld of experience.
Keywords: Coming into conscious form. New ways of being.Transformation. New forms emerging out of the past. Needing,
and probably expecting, recognition. Feeling different from thecrowd. Learning to stand on your own two feet. Problems with
feet and legs. Longing to make an impression.
The Caution: Focusing on social or rational aspects beforebeing ready. Naivety. Being thrown in the deep end. Relying onrelationships too much. Looking to the other for validation ofone’s existence. Co-dependent behavior.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 29
I feel my immortality oversweep all pains, all tears, all
time, all fears, —and peal, likethe eternal thunders of thedeep, into my ears, this truth;thou livest forever!Byron
Hope is the expectation thatsomething outside of ourselves,something or someoneexternal, is going to come to ourrescue and we will live happilyever after.
Dr. Robert Anthony
Higher than the question ofour duration is the question ofour deserving. Immortality willcome to such as are fit for it,and he would be a great soul infuture must be a great soul now.Ralph Waldo Emerson
I argue thee that love is life and
life hath immortality.
Emily Dickinson
I don’t want to achieve
immortality through mywork... I want to achieve itthrough not dying.
Woody Allen
If a man carefully examines histhoughts he will be surprised
to find how much he lives in
the future. His well being isalways ahead. Such a creature
is probably immortal.
Ralph Waldo Emerson

5-30: AN UNSEALED LETTER HAS VITAL
AND CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
Commentary: ‘An Unsealed Letter’ is an image of words orthoughts, letters, notes or messages. They have been written,but as the ‘Letter’ is ‘Unsealed’, they have not been ‘Sealed’ in
an envelope. ‘Vital and Confidential Information’ implies that
important messages and information may need to be concealed
from others. Being ‘Unsealed’ shows that it is possible that otherswould want to peek at (or be shown) what’s been said or written.There could be important papers lying around, or perhaps they
are lost amongst other papers and proving difficult to find. Itis possible that this ‘Information’ could be seen by the wrongeyes.
Oracle: Getting your thoughts down on paper can lead to greater
understandings about people and situations. If there is a message
that you wish to spread, you will be able to do it as long as you
make the effort to put it into reality. When this is done out in theopen anyone can, and will, benefit from it. Communicating in a
trusting, carefree way leads to doubts being dispelled. However,are your ideas, thoughts and emotions feeling exposed becauseyou have been too trusting and “worn your heart on your sleeve”?Pausing to reflect can be advantageous. Sometimes we have verystrong feelings about a person or a situation, but caution is calledfor as these can change with time. You may regret someone havingseen or learnt what’s been on your mind. The ‘Information’ inthe ‘Unsealed Letter’ can be messages, thoughts or ideas that
have been thought through and are now being translated tothe written word. This also shows writing books, articles, e-mails along with verbal messages of all kinds. The ‘Vital andConfidential Information’ is obviously something important.Should it be shared with all or only a few? Remember to employintegrity in all that is said and thought.
Keywords: Wearing your heart on your sleeve. Shared thoughtsand feelings. Declaring what needs to be said. “Dear John” letters.
Laying one’s self on the line through writing things down. Diaries.Letters. Penmanship. Messages of intent. Things said out loud.
Confidences.
The Caution: Playing games with information. Pretending toconceal for the purposes of deceit. Blurting things out. Not giving
any indication of what’s thought. Being upset about having thingsout in the open. Passing on the secrets of others. Revealing things
that shouldn't be revealed.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Leo 30
Please excuse the length of thisletter; |do not have time to be
brief.Anon
Better than a thousand uselesswords is one single word that
gives peace. Better thanathousand useless verses is onesingle verse that gives peace.
Better than a hundred useless
poems is one single poem thatgives peace.The Dhammapada
Afraid lest he be caught upin a net of words, tripped up,bewildered and so defeated—
thrown aside—a man hesitates
to write down his innermostconvictions.William Carlos Williams
It is wise to disclose what
cannot be concealed.
Johann Friedrich Von Schiller
A writer is dear and necessaryfor us only in the measure of
which he reveals to us the inner
workings of his very soul.
Count Leo Tolstoy
Never write a letter while youare angry.Chinese Proverb
A secret is like a dove: when itleaves my hand it takes wing.Arabian Proverb

6-1: IN A PORTRAIT,THE BEST OF A
MAN’S TRAITS AND CHARACTER
ARE IDEALIZED
Commentary: ‘In a Portrait, the Best of a Man’s Traits and Characterare Idealized’ is an image of a person shown, or portrayed, in a
painting, drawing, story or photograph; with the good featureshighlighted and the negative factors left out. This may be a positive
thing, or it may miss the true characteristics of the person. Our faceis nature’s “name-tag”; it tells something about our personality, ourtemperament and race. Having features that make one stand out inthe crowd can be a good or a negative thing, depending on one’ssituation, viewpoint or beliefs.
racle: You may need to remind yourself of the true features of the
situation before you. Is the “true picture”—the ‘Man’s Traits’—allowing
their true beauty to be seen? If so, someone is presenting him or
herself with integrity and distinction. However, we sometimes analyze
others based on a superficial or ‘Idealized’ image we have of them.
This can distort the truth. When we do this, we are often really just
projecting our own thoughts, or desires, on to them. If someone is“good looking”, do we appraise them differently from others whom wethink are not? If people have facial disfigurations, do we consider thatthey are somehow “lesser”? Be wary of “judging a book by its cover”.
However, it may be necessary to look for the best in a situation orperson, and avoid the more undesirable factors. What lies within maybe different from what’s apparent on the surface. Studying someone’sface, or how they look, for visual clues to who they are can lead toaccurate conclusions, if you know how to look for the “right” things.Sometimes we make up stories or have fantasies about people so thatwe can justify thinking better or worse of them. What is the pictureof the situation facing you? Do you feel it is an honest representationof what’s going on, or is something being covered-up?
Keywords: Projection of beauty. Drawings, paintings, photographs,
etc. Art, cosmetics, beauty salons. Hairstyles. Elevated thoughts ormemories. Taking someone at face value. Visual senses and clues.
Recognition. Caricatures of people. Highlighting features. “Identikit”
drawings. Visual prototypes. Profiles. Face reading. Written reviewsand references. Viewpoints.
The Caution: Not truly assessing people. Vanity. Superficial judgments.Propaganda. Misleading appearances. Tagging people with labels.Misidentifications. Taking someone the wrong way. Seeing only thebest, or the worst. Preconceived beliefs. Feeling misunderstood.Prejudice. Projections.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 1
Every artist dips his brush in hisown soul, and paints his own
nature into his pictures.Henry Ward Beecher
Aman finds room in the few
square inches of the face for thetraits of all his ancestors, for theexpression of all his history, andhis wants.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Did you ever see a portrait of agreat man without perceivingstrong traits of pain andanxiety?John Adams
Aman must be strong enoughto mold the peculiarity ofhis imperfections into theperfection of his peculiarities.
Walter Rathenau
Throughout the centuries,man has considered himselfbeautiful. rather suppose that
man only believes in his ownbeauty out of pride; that heis not really beautiful and hesuspects this himself; for why
does he look on the face of his
fellowman with such scorn?Isidore Ducasse Lautreamont
The true ideal is not opposed
to the real but lies in it;andblessed are the eyes that find if.James Russell Lowell

6-2: A LARGE WHITE CROSS, DOMINATING
THE LANDSCAPE, STANDS ALONE ON
TOP OF A HIGH HILL
Commentary: ‘A Large White Cross, Dominating the Landscape,Stands Alone on Top of a High Hill’ is a symbol of suffering andloss and the hope of faith and salvation. Symbols such as the‘Cross’ have long had a deep, meaningful and powerful influence.That the ‘Cross’ is ‘Standing Alone’ depicts a sense of desertion,perhaps of one’s faith or life circumstances. This can bring a senseof isolation. The idea, or belief, that suffering and giving up one’spersonal desires as a means to salvation has special significance
for many people, but what does it really mean? True religion issupposed to unite people in many ways. Dogmatic expressions offaith can either unite or divide, even in what should be seen as acommon cause. People need symbols of faith to rally around andinspire them.
Oracle: Feelings of loneliness or loss can be healed with signs ofhope and faith for a brighter future. A religious experience canchange one's life and lead to spiritual fulfillment and the highestsense of joy. However, these experiences can also lead to throwingone's life away. There can be too much emphasis on spiritual and“other worldly” values, which can lead people to lose their day-to-day lives. Some may feel that they are being treated like a scapegoat,“hung out to dry”; punished for doing something or being differentor special in some way. Instead of having a “cross to bear”, we canwork at realigning ourselves with our true desires and allegiances.
We can ground our selves and our lives by creating a balanced setof circumstances in our life: money, relationships, family, career,
etc. This can lead to a stronger sense of purpose and spirituality,
dissipating feelings of sacrifice, separation or loneliness.
Keywords: Religious ideals dominating. The fear or the wonder
of God. Following a mystic path. The need to find a savior. Beingalone and forgotten. Monuments to pain and suffering. Tributes toor memories of those lost or gone before. Reminders of salvation.Images of redemption. The Church. Christianity and other religions.
Martyrdom. The Inquisition.
The Caution: Aloneness and/or sacrifice or the yearning for it.Dogmatism. Scapegoating. Days in the wilderness alone. Religiondictating against one’s desires or needs. Symbols that inspireguilt and anguish instead of love, acceptance and forgiveness.Institutions disregarding individual rights. Lording it over others.
Bullying under the guise of religion. Imposing figures.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 2
The anguish of the neuroticindividual is the same as that of
the saint. The neurotic and thesaint are engaged in the samebattle. Their blood flows from
similar wounds. But the first onegasps and the other one gives.Georges Bataille
The heresies we should fear are
those which can be confusedwith orthodoxy.
Jorge Luis Borges
Victims suggest innocence. Andinnocence, by the inexorable
logic that governs all relationalterms, suggests guilt.
Susan Sontag
Martyrdom has always beena proof of the intensity, neverof the correctness of a belief.Arthur Schnitzler
Ifyou bear the cross willingly, itwill bear you.
Thomas A. Kempis
Forgive me my nonsense as |forgive the nonsense of thosewho think they talk sense.Anon
Christ was crucified for saying
“the Kingdom is within you.”Joseph Campbell
Greater love hath no man thanthis, that aman lay down hislife for his friends.
Jesus Christ

6-3: TWO GUARDIAN ANGELS BRINGING
PROTECTION
Commentary: ‘Two Guardian Angels Bringing Protection’ is abeautiful Symbol that brings to mind images of salvation, releaseand protection. Being there for us, ‘Guardian Angels’ are believedto look out for our best interests, especially when we most needthem. This is particularly true when we feel we are about tostumble or fall in some way. Our ‘Guardian Angels’ are with useven if we don’t have a conscious awareness of their existenceor presence, although if we do consciously evoke them, they are
likely to be more “present” or obvious to us, in whatever form.
Oracle: This Symbol reminds us that no matter what we do,where we are, how difficult our struggles or how successfulour activities, our ‘Angels’ are always with us. ‘Guardian Angels’appear in many forms - as strangers, friends, family members,even as events, etc. They can come to us in moments of deepdespair, when all seems lost and we feel abandoned and alone.Their messages and actions can signal a turning point, a feeling
that life is well worth the struggles and torments we have tosometimes endure. With this Symbol, there is reassurance thatyou are not alone, lost or forgotten in a situation, at least not forvery long. There is a strong sense that protection, guidance anddirection are around. Hold a feeling close to your mind and heart;
the belief that invisible, or visible, help is coming. This will ensure
that help and relief will, indeed, become available. Rememberthat friends and family can often help, especially in the role ofacting as sounding boards or counselors. Once things are backon track, it is likely you will find the true path that you mustfollow. Feeling good about your direction and being protectedbuilds a sense of inner strength. You are never alone when youdraw this Symbol. Open up to the ‘Protection’ being offered toyou, don’t resist it.
Keywords: Connection with a sense of inner guidance. Visibleor invisible protection. People appearing when they’re needed.
Being saved in the nick of time. Creative solutions to problemsthat seemed hopeless and lost. Counseling and guidance. Angels.Security systems. Salvation. Social workers.
The Caution: Feeling lost and alone without help. Losing faith inthe goodness of life. Expecting that fate, or others, will pick upthe pieces without putting in any effort. Resisting help in order tohang onto your “wounds”. Too much reliance on outside forces.Not acting to change things. Victim status.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 3
Angels around us, angels beside
us, angels within us. Angelsare watching over you when
times are good or stressed. Theirwings wrap gently around you,whispering you are loved and
blessed.Angel Blessing
There are only two ways to
live your life. One is as though
nothing is a miracle.The otheris as though everything is amiracle.
Albert Einstein
I’m aware that people I haveloved and have died and are inthe spirit world look after me.Princess of Wales Diana
Make friends with the angels,
who though invisible arealways with you... Often invokethem, constantly praise them,and make good use of their
help and assistance in all your temporal and spiritual affairs.Saint Francis de Sales
We forget to pray for the Angels
and the Angels forget to prayfor us.Leonard Cohen
We are like children, who stand
in need of masters to enlightenus and direct us; and God has
provided for this, by appointinghis angels to be our teachers
and guides.Saint Thomas Aquinas

6-4: BLACK AND WHITE CHILDREN
PLAYING HAPPILY TOGETHER
Commentary: ‘Black and White Children Playing Happily Together’is a Symbol of racial and social integration that brings enrichmentand joy to all who participate. That they are said to be ‘Black andWhite’ can, of course, imply that there are racial differences betweenthem. However, it can also symbolize many other differences inbackground, religion, belief systems, social or economic andprofessional levels. Essentially, it can represent anything basedon social perceptions or prejudices that can keep people apartfrom each other. As these ‘Children’ are said to be ‘Playing Happily
Together’, any feelings of prejudice are dispelled because of their
overriding concerns of ‘Play’ and the enjoyment of each other. The‘Children’ share an element of innocence, fun, and creativity. Theironly desire, here, is to be ‘Playing’ with others. When these attitudes
are adopted, it is easy to see that skin color or any other differencesfade into insignificance.
Oracle: The situation facing you may have a lot of seemingly opposite
elements, but this is probably only an illusion of social perception.In reality, it is the blending of people and their individual traitsand talents that allows things to be resolved and to move forward.Accepting everyone as equal will dispel thoughts and attitudes that
can bring about separation and suspicion. There may be a need toremember to ‘Play Happily Together’, as this may have been forgotten
recently. People who have been estranged from each other can droptheir differences and come together in a fresh new light. However,if you're forced to be with people whose company you don’t enjoy,this can lead to suppression of your own wants and desires. Finding
joy in the pleasure of simply being with others or seeking outthose who want to share your time can rejuvenate life and inspirecreativity. When drawing this Symbol it is important to considerwhere happiness and equality lies in your list of priorities.
Keywords: Universal brotherhood. Overcoming prejudices andboundaries that separate people. Knocking down social barriers
to relate freely. Being able to let go, relax and have fun with peoplefrom anywhere. Adopted siblings. Foster homes. Affirmative action.Trust and joy. Play that unites people.
The Caution: Morality that is swayed by public opinion. Not adjustingpsychologically to situations that require creative responses. Racialand social prejudice. Seeing things in black and white terms. Socialdemarcations that separate people or situations. Apartheid. Illusionsbased on the separative perceptions of society.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 4
...what lam is a humanistbefore anything—before I'maJew, before I'm black, before I’m
awoman.And my beliefs arefor the human race—they don't
exclude anyone.Whoopi Goldberg
I destroy my enemy when I makehim my friend.Abraham Lincoln
It's never to late to give up yourprejudices,Henry David Thoreau
Prejudice is the child of ignorance.William Hazlitt
Why must it be justacase ofblack or white? There must be
more to life than this.Freddie Mercury
The imposition of stigma is thecommonest form of violenceused in democratic societies.
R.A. Pinker
You cannot contribute anythingto the ideal condition ofmind and heart known asBrotherhood, however much youpreach, posture, or agree, unless
you live it.Faith Baldwin
The only moral lesson whichis suited for a child, the mostimportant lesson for everytime of life, is this: “Never hurtanybody.”Denis Breeze

6-5: A MAN BECOMING AWARE OF
NATURE SPIRITS AND NORMALLY
UNSEEN SPIRITUAL ENERGIES
Commentary: ‘A Man Becoming Aware of Nature Spirits and
Normally Unseen Spiritual Energies’ shows the rational mind
of someone being overshadowed by supernatural and intuitive
images, thoughts and feelings. Equipped to see the invisible, thisperson has started to penetrate into the deeper and more mysticallevels of the unconscious.
Oracle: There may be strong feelings of other levels of awareness
happening and these may be growing stronger by the moment.The imagination is showing a clearer path to some understanding,even though, along the way, there may be confusion. Look forinsights and messages in the things that you see and heararound you. Try bringing these insights back into your everyday
consciousness, as they can expand your feelings about your selfand life. Remembering a strong sense of who you are while
allowing messages to come through from “the other side” can lead
to a heightened feeling of aliveness and an increased ‘Awareness’of the magic and mystery of life. Getting in touch with ‘Nature
Spirits and Normally Unseen Spiritual Energies’ can be incredibly
enriching and miracles can happen in your life. Indeed, therecan be the revelation of being close to God. Your senses cancome alive on many levels, with things revealed that you mayhave only imagined before. By contrast, the ordinary, everyday
world may seem boring, lifeless and shallow. You can havesurprising perceptions of existence on another level—but will
it be useful or just lead you astray? Remember to stay groundedin your experiences as it can bring you considerable joy. Losingtouch with reality, however, can lead to losing the plot to thepoint where it is difficult to discern what is real and what isnot. ‘Becoming More Aware’ of other levels of existence can beenriching in many ways.
Keywords: Creative fantasies. Attuned minds perceiving subtle
phenomena. Fairy tales. Seeing things or imagining them.Fantasizing. Seeing entities. Mental institutions. Halloween.Fairies, nature spirits. Seeing the normally unseen.
The Caution: Confusion. Lack of true perspective. Time wasted inescapes from reality. Imagining things. Losing the plot. Dreamingto the point of insanity. Making up things in order to be noticedor feel somehow special. Delusions. Dreaming of possibilitiesthat disappear upon waking. Schizophrenia.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 5
The universe is full of magicalthings patiently waiting for ourwits to grow sharper.
Eden Phillpotts
Today there are no fairy talesfor us to believe in, and thisis possibly a reason for theuniversal prevalence of mental
crackup. Yes, if we were childishin the past,|wish we could be
children once again.
Anita Loos
Don't ask questions of fairytales.
Jewish Proverb
Reality is merely an illusion,albeit a very persistent one.Albert Einstein
There are nine orders of angels,to wit, angels, archangels,virtues, powers, principalities,dominations, thrones,cherubim, and seraphim.Pope Gregory the Great
Reality is that which, when youstop believing in it, doesn’t goaway.
Philip K, Dick
Every time a child says, “I don’tbelieve in fairies,” there is a fairysomewhere that falls downdead.James Matthew Barrie

6-6: A MERRY-GO-ROUND
Commentary: A ‘Merry-Go-Round’ is a Symbol that arousesmemories of fair grounds, carnivals, playgrounds and childhoodfun and games. The blaringly loud music, the children looking
around at each other and watching the faces and the squeals ofthe others were all part of the fun. The thrill of going around andaround was the objective. This can be great fun for children and
big kids alike who enjoy this type of activity without tiring orgetting bored. It can, however, be another story when we’re older.It can be tiring going around in circles without finding any realoutcome or having a clear sense of an objective to strive for.
Oracle: There’s a need to see definite possibilities and evidence ofadvancement in life and to feel as though we are making progresstowards a goal or a clear outcome. This image can relate to anysituation where we feel stuck in repetitive or unprogressive ruts.Relationships, marriages, jobs and everyday chores or habits canhave you running around in circles landing you right back in thesame place. This can lead you to wonder if you should just holdon tight, wait to see if the thing will ever eventually stop or jump
off. Jumping off whilst things are still in motion can actuallyfeel life threatening. The desire, longing or even addiction tothings, people, places, substances, etc., can put a hold on yourlife to the point where you can’t see a way out. Just when you
may think you’ve seen a way to get off, or out, you’re back in thesame situation, emotion or location. However, each time youreturn to what feels like the same place, if you’ve been watchful,you ve had the opportunity to look at other alternatives, answersor possibilities. At some stage, though, there will need to be adecision made: do you want to keep going round and round, or do
you want to stop repetitive situations or reactions and get off?
Keywords: Repeating circles of activity. Looking for a park.Driving around and around. Motion sickness. Childhood fun andjoy. Yo-yoing and oscillating backwards and forwards. Emotionalpolarization. Once you’re on it, you want to get off. The upsand downs and the ins and outs. Habits that are hard to break.Carnivals. Lights. Noise. Music.
The Caution: Repeating the same mistakes. Bouncing aroundfrom one thing to another and not getting anywhere. Feelinglike there’s no end in sight. Addictive behavior. Feeling dizzy.Not being able to focus on one point. Manic depression. Gettingnowhere. Seeking only pleasure. Seemingly endless treadmills.Motion sickness.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 6
The wheel goes round andround, some are up and some
are on the down, and still thewheel goes round.
Josephine Pollard
We dance round ina ring andsuppose, but the Secret sits inthe middle and knows.
Robert Frost
Life is a roller coaster. Try to eatalight lunch.
David A. Schmaltz
If only bad habits could bebroken as easily as hearts!Christopher Spranger
It’s not true that life is onedamn thing after another—it'sthe same damn thing over andover.Edna St. Vincent Millay
Few tasks are more like thetorture of Sisyphus thanhousework, with its endlessrepetition: the clean becomessoiled; the soiled is made clean,over and over, day after day.Simone de Beauvoir
An umeboshi plum is a littleJapanese salt plum. The bestthing for motion sickness is totake one of these plums ...and
tape it to your belly button.I’m not kidding you. This really,really works.
Marilu Henner

6-7: A HAREM
Commentary: ‘A Harem’ is a Symbol of women being, living andworking together. They are often dictated to by the needs of justone person or authority. Sometimes the women are happy with
fulfilling the needs and desires of the “master”; sometimes they’renot. Women in a ‘Harem’ often enjoy each other’s company more
than they enjoy “the man”. Amongst the women in a ‘Harem’,there is at least one person who acts as the “leader”, someone
that the others look up to. Even though they need to get alongand furiction together as a team, there are still their individualpersonalities, qualities and gifts to consider.
Oracle: This Symbol can indicate too many people in a
relationship or finding happiness through women friends and
the sacrifices that may have to be accepted to achieve this. As
this is ‘A Harem’, there may be a feeling of being dominated or
being part of a group where people compete for whatever smallbenefits are available. Some women want to have their womenfriends all to themselves, and of course men sometimes do thiswith each other, as well. In a'Harem', sometimes the men believethey are in charge, when in reality it is the women calling the
shots! You may find it hard to be taken seriously, to be appreciated
for your individuality or be noticed apart from the crowd. Have
faith; you can use your charm and the appealing aspects of yournature to succeed. A greater sense of security can come when lifeis protected, the finances covered, and one’s relationship needsare satisfied. However, the desire for protection can lead to thedecision to give up other things in life. When we feel secure andjust hang out with each other, we can be more creative, carefreeand empathetic to the needs and desires of others. Remember,
we all have a unique role.
Keywords: Rising above jealousy, arrogance and passion. Waitingto be bestowed with the gift of being “chosen”. Women’s circles,sometimes closed. Women’s groups. Working together. Sharingfeminine rituals and stories. Egyptian tales. One person callingthe shots. Beauty salons. Seduction of the senses. Having one’sneeds serviced. Women pampering each other. People who serve.Adoring the other. Sultans. Polygamy.
The Caution: Being just one of “the mob”. Not having a sense ofpersonal importance. Mistrust of other women. Seeing people ascompetition. The spread of socially unacceptable diseases. Locked
doors. Sexual infidelity. Needing the love of many. Eunuchs.Assuming the right to dominate others.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 7
A woman who is loved alwayshas success.
Vicki Baum
Woman must not depend uponthe protection of man, but mustbe taught to protect herself.
Susan B. Anthony
The dogma of woman'scomplete historical subjectionto men must be rated as one ofthe most fantastic myths evercreated by the human mind.
Mary Ritter Beard
Many abolitionists have yet to
learn the ABC of woman’ rights.Susan B. Anthony
For what is done or learned byone class of women becomes,by virtue of theircommon
womanhood, the property of allwomen.Emily Blackwell
I can't say that the college-bredwoman is the most contentedwoman. The broader her mindthe more she understands theunequal conditions betweenmen and women, the more shechafes under a governmentthat tolerates it.Susan B. Anthony
We are his, to serve him nobly inthe common cause, true to thedeath, but not to be his slaves.William Cowper

6-8: A GIRL TAKES HER FIRST DANCING
INSTRUCTION
Commentary: ‘A Girl Takes Her First Dancing Instruction’ is aSymbol of youth, innocence and naiveté. The ‘Young Girl’ needsto show respect and reverence for the “teacher”, as this person
may hold the key to her future, in some way. The ‘Girl’ must
listen to her ‘Instructor’ or teacher; otherwise she may miss therewards and opportunities available in the lesson she’s taking.
She also has to listen to and become one with the music. Alongwith the need to accept ‘Instruction’, she must learn the stepsand the “rules”. How well she gets along with the “teacher” willadd to how well the lessons succeed.
Oracle: You may find yourself in a situation that is brand new toyou and you need to “learn the ropes”. You have the potential todo well, but initially you may be unsure of what to do or how to
act (or react), or what “steps” to take. Even though you may knowa lot about many things, in regard to the situation facing you, youmay not have had much experience. There may be a lot to take
in, absorb and learn at the moment but one day you'll probably
look back and see that it was actually easy, like learning to ridea bike. After the steps to the “dance” have been learnt, you willbe able to display more maturity and grace. Eventually, people
can stop telling you how to perform. However, no matter howmuch we know, we go on learning throughout our entire life.For now you have to listen, respond and learn - that is, unlessyou are the "teacher". Pay attention to what is being taught andwhat, indeed, can be learnt, and you will continue to learn andgo far in life. Music and ‘Dance’ can lift your life; indeed they
can transform it.
Keywords: Practice makes perfect. Higher talents beingdeveloped. Learning discipline, self-control and concentration.Taking on something new. Listening to and following instructions.
Moving into a new sense of being. Losing innocence. Learningthe steps without thinking. Music and dance. Following therhythm. Progressing from one thing to the next. Instructors andstudents.
The Caution: Difficulty understanding lessons. Continuallyreturning to the beginning. Not trusting the teacher or instruction.Having to learn things against one’s desires. Believing that oneknows everything already. Fears of being seen as a beginner
or clumsy. Having two left feet. Not paying attention to life’slessons. Naivety.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 8
Fine dancing, |believe, likevirtue, must be its own reward.Jane Austen
Life’s a dance, you learn as yougo, sometimes you lead andsometimes you follow. Don’t
worry bout what you don'tknow, life’s a dance.... you learnas you go.Katie Schrimsher
I don't try to dance better than
anyone else.I only try to dancebetter than myself.Mikhail Baryshnikov
Remember, Ginger Rogers dideverything Fred Astaire did, butshe did it backwards and inhigh heels.Faith Whittlesey
How inimitably gracefulchildren are before they learnto dance.
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
Will you, won't you Will you,
won't you Will you join the
dance?Lewis Carroll
A child... must feel the flush of
victory and the heart-sinking
of disappointment before hetakes with a will to the tasks
distasteful to him and resolvesto dance his way through a dullroutine of textbooks,
Helen Keller

6-9: AN EXPRESSIONIST PAINTER
MAKING A FUTURISTIC DRAWING
Commentary: ‘An Expressionist Painter’ is ‘Making a Futuristic
Drawing’. As he’s an ‘Expressionist Painter’, he’s probably an artistahead of his time, or at least has a different perspective to life frommost people. The ‘Painter’ may be focused and concentrating on
his task to the exclusion of all else in his life. The ‘Painter’ paints,draws or makes plans with his thoughts, feelings and emotions; heresponds to his creations in the moment. The ‘Futuristic Drawing’
can be schemes, ‘Drawings’ or plans of things that may or maynot eventually come into reality.
Oracle: Individuality and originality seem to be the uppermost
requirements to get the most out of the situation facing you. Even
against the pressures for a more traditional or socially acceptable
response, it is your individual creativity that is needed now. Tryto look at things in a different light; picture how things will lookin the ‘Future’ if you take the steps you’re contemplating. Will
things work out as planned? What is your interpretation of the
‘Future’? Who and what does it include? Many different elementsgo into creating what’s possible in our lives. One thing is having
the vision - everyone has to have a vision. Another thing is havingthe drive, energy and a positive affirmation to see the vision turninto reality. The vision without the drive is useless. Maintainboth aspects and your chances of success in the ‘Future’ will
undoubtedly improve. However, always thinking that things will
be much better in the 'Future' can lead to the loss of enjoyinglife in the present.
Keywords: Creativity projected into the future. Seeing thingsahead of their time. Taking chances. Having the dreamer’s disease.
Talent. Seeing things in a different way. Being unrestricted byreality. Time machines and time travel. Artists, architects andengineers. Plans, schemes, blueprints. "When I win the lottery..."Forecasting and prediction. Genius. Sketches. Abstract art.
The Caution: Focusing on tomorrow not today. Not seeingthe complete picture. Plans that often come to nothing. Beingunrealistic. Losing touch with the real world. Losing enthusiasm.Thinking the worst will happen. Making things up that don't
reflect reality. Being stuck on one version of the future. Livingfor tomorrow, not today. Distorted reality. Getting lost in abstractthought. Being divorced from the real world.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 9
I like dreams of the future betterthan the history of the past.Thomas Jefferson
We worry about what a childwill be tomorrow, yet we forgetthat he is someone today.
Stacia Tauscher
See things as you would havethem be instead of as they are.
Robert Collier
Great minds have purposes,others have wishes.Washington Irving
We are what we think. All that
we are arises with our thoughts.With our thoughts, we makeour world.
Buddha
Know what I'm looking forwardto? The future.Carl—The Simpsons
Every one is the architect of his
own fortune.Mathurin Regnier
You'll see it when you believe it.Wayne Dyer
Well, back to the drawingboard.Peter Arno
Life is a great big canvas, and
you should throw all the painton it you can.Danny Kaye

6-10: TWO HEADS LOOKING OUT AND
BEYOND THE SHADOWS
Commentary: ‘Two Heads Looking Out and Beyond the Shadows’is a Symbol of duality of thought and observation. This Symbolshows people looking at each other from a ‘Shadowy’, hiddenperspective, as though they are checking each other out. The“Two Heads” can illustrate groups of people having differentperspectives, or occupying different camps, ‘Looking Out’ andtrying to understand, or investigate, what the “other” is doing.
Oracle: At the moment you may need to be able to see things from
more than one side. While what’s happening may not be entirely
visible or obvious, it is necessary to look beyond the ‘Shadows’
and into the light. If you feel stuck in a situation because the
details of what’s really happening are not clear, try making sometype of plan. Mapping out what alternatives there are and theoutcomes of possible scenarios will be beneficial. The right planof action can lead to light being shed and things being revealed.As there are ‘Two Heads’ pictured here, two people observingexactly the same thing can come to very different conclusions.There may be arguments, bickering and stalemates if they find ithard to agree with each other. Their observations can be quitedifferent, but this can lead to interesting and useful solutions,especially if they take the time to listen to each other. The ‘TwoHeads’ duality can also exist in one person’s thoughts. Seeingboth sides of a situation can result in difficulty in making up one’smind. Losing the ability to make firm decisions and the loss offaith can open the door to fear. Regardless of potential confusion,it is beneficial in some respect to look at every possible aspect
of the situation you are in. This may provide an understandingof just how another person may feel or react.
Keywords: Duality of observation or thought. Being able to seeboth sides of a situation. Fear being the opposite of faith. Peoplepeering and peeking. Secret service and government agencies.Gunfights of the old west. Trench warfare. The media, the press,paparazzi, spies, private detectives. Conspiracy theories. Crossedeyes. Eavesdropping. Voyeurism.
The Caution: Confused by duality of thought. Failing to seethe integration and cohesion of more than one perspective.Schizophrenia. Fear freezing up positive attitudes. Debates.Stalemates. Making assumptions without the relevant information.Quarrelling. Not seeing the light. Inability to agree. Bickeringwith others or with one's self.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 10
Hearing both sides bringsenlightenment. Believing onlyone side brings obscurity.
Wei Cheng
Keep your face to the sunshine
and you cannot see theshadows.Helen Keller
I don’t understand you. Youdon’t understand me. What
else do we have in common?Ashleigh Brilliant
Do I contradict myself? Verywell; I contradict myself.
Walt Whitman
Doubts are more cruel than the
worst of truths.Anon
The optimist proclaims that welive in the best of all possibleworlds, and the pessimist fears
this is true.
James Branch Cabell
That which we call sin in others,
is experiment for us.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
We don't see things as they are.We see them as we are.
Anais Nin
Know that you are your owngreatest enemy, but also yourgreatest friend.Jeremy Taylori

6-11: A BOY MOLDED IN HIS MOTHER’S
ASPIRATIONS FOR HIM
Commentary: ‘A Boy Molded in His Mother’s Aspirations For Him’
is a Symbol of someone having to live up to the expectations of
parents or others. The ‘Mother’, or other authority figure, oftenmisses the point of the true potential of her offspring and maybe projecting her own unlived life. Can the ‘Boy’ live up to ‘His
Mother’s Aspirations’? Probably not, at least not all the time.
Oracle: Sometimes it’s fine to be ‘Molded’ by our parents, but
often this is not a true reflection of who we truly are or of ourown Creative potentials. This being said, we still need to be awareof what others expect from us—what ideals do people expectus to embody and to live out? Once we've identified what ‘Mold’we have allowed ourselves to be persuaded or projected into, wecan learn why we do certain things, often for others, and whattruly needs to be done in order to be faithful to our own inner
needs. It can be useful to know how and where the ‘Mold’ one’s
been poured into is appropriate and where it isn’t. The ‘Mother’
that has the ‘Aspirations’ can represent the expectations of asingle individual or it can show groups of individuals. Indeed,society puts its own set of ideals and expectations on everyone,
at least in some way. This can go all the way from family, spouseand friends, right through to other authority figures, such as thegovernment or the dictates of one’s country. The ‘Mother’ “out
there” may smother our true feelings of what we want to do,
often for reasons of social respectability and prestige. However,if the ‘Aspirations’ are worth striving for, this can lead to a greatoutcome, with people being proud of the person that one isbecoming.
Keywords: Being directed on the journey or shaped against one’sfree will. Plastic or cosmetic surgery. Building the physical or
emotional shape. Finding one’s way or destiny. Predetermineddestinies. Looking like one’s mother or father. The challengeof individuality. DNA. Parents as patterns. Allowing others todictate who you are. Inherited values. Following in the family's
footsteps.
The Caution: Remaining tied to the apron strings of motheror others. Conforming to social expectations. Not having a
clear sense of what one wants to be. Being a reflection of whatsomebody else wants. Being a “mummy’s boy”. Not having the
free will of one’s own. Living the unlived life of the parents.Squashed individuality. Letting down the side.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 11
Nothing has a stronger
influence psychologicallyon their environment andespecially on their children thanthe unlived life of the parent.
Carl Jung
My mother said to me, “If you
become a soldier you'll be a
general; ifyou become a monkyou'll end up as the pope.”
Instead, became a painter and
wound up as Picasso.Pablo Picasso
A child may have too much ofhis mother’s blessing.Proverb
I blame Rousseau, myself.“Man
is born free’ indeed. Man is not
born free; he is born attached to
his mother by a cord and is notcapable of looking after himselffor at least seven years (seventyin some cases).Katharine Whitehorn
For a man to achieve all that
is demanded of him he mustregard himself as greater thanhe is.
Goethe
Conformity is the jailer of
freedom and the enemy ofgrowth.
John F. Kennedy
He that has no children bringsthem up well.Traditional Proverb

6-12: A BRIDE WITH HER VEIL SNATCHED
AWAY
Commentary: A ‘Bride With Her Veil Snatched Away’ is an imageof revelation, unveiling and discovery. Traditionally, ‘Brides’ havebeen thought to be particularly vulnerable to evil spirits and the
‘Veil’ was thought to be able to outwit malevolent spirits. In somecountries the groom is not allowed to see the ‘Bride’s’ face untilafter the ceremony. No matter what her situation, the ‘Bride’ isnow faced with the moment of moving into a new life and anewsense of identity.
Oracle: This speaks of “taking the plunge” and making a
commitment to someone or something. It pictures a situationwhere the past and the future collide. One cannot continue toexist in limbo; the future has a stronger call than the past. This
Symbol can also indicate that you must show your true face or youwill be forced to reveal it. There may be a feeling that somebody
is not quite ready to give them self completely to the situation.However, as they've made some form of commitment to what they
are doing, they don’t really have much choice. Being unable tohide behind ‘Veils’, illusions, or pretense any longer means thatsomething will happen to break any resistance that may remain.
If one doesn’t go willingly, they may be pushed forward. Havingto act, or relate, regardless of excuses or hesitation, puts thepressure on to move forward and to accept or reject the situation
they find themselves in, regardless of reservations. Those who
‘Snatch the Veil Away’ may not be acting in order to dominateor overpower, but just trying to remove barriers in the way of
relating. It may be hesitation that is creating problems. Look to
your motives and those of others around you; be sure of whythey are doing what they do. Letting down your guard can open
up whole new worlds.
Keywords: Secret motives being revealed. Unveiling or changingidentity. Proving oneself with no excuses and no pretense.
Breaking down walls. Relating on a deep level. “Honeymoonperiods”. Being true to one’s self and others. Marriage rituals.Dropping pretense. Divorce. Veils. Vows. The veil between theconscious and unconscious.
The Caution: Stubbornly refusing to accept new directions.Failing to commit. Not coming up with what one promised.Feelings of violation. Not ready to give up fantasies or illusions.Being used or exposed. Harsh realities. Mysteries that may be
best left that way. Withdrawal.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 12
Don't compromise yourself.You're all you've got.Janis Joplin
Heaven has no rage like love to
hatred turned, nor hell a fury
like a woman scorned.
William Congreve
Beware of all enterprises that
require new clothes.Henry David Thoreau
Grief walks upon the heels ofpleasure; married in haste, werepent at leisure.William Congreve
When a husband is embracedwithout affection, there must besome reason for it.Hitopadesa
The honeymoon is over, baby,it’s never gonna be that wayagain.The Cruel Sea
Personally,! hold that a
man, who deliberately and
intelligently takes a pledge
and then breaks it, forfeits his
manhood.
Mahatma Gandhi
Aman in love is incompleteuntil he is married. Then he isfinished.
Zsa Zsa Gabor
No one worth possessing can
be quite possessed.Sara Teasdale

6-13: A POWERFUL STATESMAN
OVERCOMES A STATE OF POLITICAL
HYSTERIA
Commentary: ‘A Powerful Statesman Overcomes a State of
Political Hysteria’ pictures someone being able to take chargeor reign in energies that have gotten out of control. Indeed, asthere is some ‘Hysteria’ involved, something could have blownout of all proportion to reality. The ‘Powerful Statesman’ maybe someone who is strong, charismatic and energetic, having apowerful place in society or a position of strength. They have
a sense of authority, and others will listen to what they have to
say. A word from them can turn situations around with very littleapparent effort.
Oracle: You may find that your situation is whipped up as peopleget carried away with the energy that’s around. There is a needto get the upper hand to bring about a stabilized outcome—to
‘Overcome’ the ‘Hysteria’. It is through the ‘Power’ of the
personality, being the ‘Powerful Statesman’, that things can beresolved and brought to a state of equilibrium. Regaining controlof one’s thoughts, psyche and emotions can ease tensions andbring the situation back to normal. Changing one’s mind about anissue that may have been overpowering can enable a whole new
view of your position in life to crystallize. Employing discipline
and control helps ona physical, mental or spiritual level. Lookingafter the small problems as they arise can stop them turning intoissues that are larger, and more difficult to control. It is alwaysbetter to notice when things are beginning to get out of handor out of shape, not waiting until things are ‘Hysterically’ messy.
After all, an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. Callon an your higher nature to regain control and bring the situationback to normality.
Keywords: The power to sway the mob. Having the charisma and
talent to turn situations around. Elements of personality that getout of control and take over. Pulling the rope tight. Mind control.Political savvy. Knowing what to say and when to say it. Keeping
your mouth shut and ears open. Rhetoric. Putting out spot fires.Being motivated. Issues of success.
The Caution: Conscious emotional manipulation and bullying.Misusing energy. Swaying others to personal advantage. Beingaggressive, demanding and overbearing. Hypnotic persuasion.Propaganda. Misinformation. Using “political speak” to control.Emotional repression.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 13
To put the world in order, wemust first put the nation inorder; to put the nation in order,we must put the family in order;
to put the family in order, wemust cultivate our personal life;
and to cultivate our personallife, we must first set our hearts
right.
Confucius
A government is like fire, ahandy servant, but a dangerousmaster.George Washington
The worst tyrants are thosewhich establish themselves in
our own breasts.William Ellery Channing
Today the nations of theworld may be divided intotwo classes—the nations inwhich the government fearsthe people, and the nations
in which the people fear thegovernment.Amos R.E. Pinochet
A fool gives full vent to hisanger, but a wise man keepshimself under control.
Proverb
Political oratory is an artinwhich nothing you say revealsthe fact that you're sayingnothing.Anon

6-14: FINELY LETTERED NAMES AND
MYSTERIOUS LINES ARE SEEN; IT ISA
FAMILY TREE
Commentary: ‘Finely Lettered Names and Mysterious Lines’ areSeen; ‘It Is a Family Tree’. This Symbol gives the impression thatthe ‘Family Tree’ is beautifully designed and mapped out. The‘Tree’ has branches with names connecting to more and morenames as it goes back through the family history. There is often asense of nostalgia and grandeur with ‘Family Trees’. Many peopleare fascinated, and sometimes amazed, by looking back to their
forefathers; where they came from, and who their close relationswere. Some members of the ‘Family’ will see the relevance andimportance of the history and the ‘Mystery’ of the ‘Family’ lineage;
meanwhile others may not even bother to look.
Oracle: There is a need to call upon the deeper and inherentknowledge within. What’s been learnt from past experience,
possibly from one’s ancestral roots, will help you allocate your
greatest strength. This Symbol implies the need to feel links toa‘Family’ heritage or the desire for the sense of security that it canbring. If there is no strong sense of one’s own biological ‘Family’,this can be found through associations with people of like mind,or with those who share a common purpose in life. How do yousee your place in the grand scheme of things? Both physically andspiritually, you carry the blood of all those who went before you.How attached are you to your ‘Family’ and your origins? Wherehave you come from? How do you feel about the role you have in
your ‘Family’? Do you feel involved, wanted and loved? Proving
yourself and your bloodline can lead to a stronger sense of self,belonging and an understanding of how you fit in.
Keywords: Strength in tradition. Belonging to a lineage. Thestory of where one comes from. Issues of pride of heritage.
The importance of parents and family. Branches in databases.Having strong and secure roots. Origins and their relevance totoday’s life. Ancestors. Calligraphy. Fine pens. Filling in the gaps.
Adoptions. Step families. Pedigrees. Kin. Genealogy. Inheritance.Family Bibles.
The Caution: Disassociation or disconnection from family history.Exclusivity or snobbery. Feeling like an alien. Feeling, or being,a stranger in a strange world. Orphans. Not knowing where onecame from. Being stuck with people you don’t know. Examining
roots. Missing identities. Skeletons in the closet.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 14
Every time a baby is born, so isa
grandmother.Anon
To “be” means to be related.Alfred Korzybski
Call it a clan, call it a network,call it a tribe, call it a family:
Whatever you call it, whoeveryou are, you need one.Jane Howard
Be tolerant of the human race.Your whole family belongs to
it—and some of your spouse’sfamily does too.Anon
lfyou don't believe in ghosts,
you've never been to a familyreunion.Ashleigh Brilliant
It is of no consequence of whatparents a man is born, so he be
aman ofmerit.
Horace
Everyone has somethingancestral, even if it is nothing
more than a disease.Ed Howe
Everyone has ancestors and itis only a question of going back
far enough to find a good one.
Howard Kenneth Nixon
Remember as far as anyoneknows, we’re a nice normalfamily.Homer Simpson

6-15: A FINE LACE ORNAMENTAL
HANDKERCHIEF
Commentary: A ‘Fine Lace Ornamental Handkerchief’ is a
beautiful, soft, lacy image. A ‘Lace Handkerchief’ is an extremelyfeminine and personal possession associated with perfume, tearsand matters of the heart. Since medieval times, women have giventheir loved ones this small token of their love and commitment
before they went into battle or traveled abroad. The scent of the
“fabric” and the care and loving that have gone into the craftingof it give a sense of security and being remembered and loved.We are often amazed by how much attention to detail, care andthought goes into making something so beautiful, small and
delicate. Even small gifts can bring a sense of love and care;they can become very sentimental. The smallest tokens of our
past can bring us a sense of security and joy.
Oracle: At the moment you may be feeling the want for love and
the need for someone in your life. You need to relax a little inorder to invite others in. The feeling of being lost and left behindcan be relieved with the touch of fabric, a whiff of perfume,etc.; these can be a reminder of people or events past. Warm,sentimental feelings can be expressed, or poured out, showingtenderness and care. Carrying a beautiful lace handkerchief mightbe a nice way to remind yourself of your true sense of worthand beauty. However, this type of ‘Handkerchief’, being madeof ‘Lace’, is not really suited for too many tears, as it can be moreof an ornament that a true ‘Handkerchief’. Hence, there can be asense of false emotion evident with this Symbol. Sometimes we
get upset about things that needn’t really upset us, or we put on an
emotional show because we feel it’s expected of us. Being wound
up and constantly “upset” or demanding emotional attention can
put people off. Staying true to your emotions and rememberingyour self-worth may be very important now.
Keywords: Delicacy of feeling. Attention to detail. Winningawards through valor. Hypersensitivity. Looking but not touching.Overdressing. Appearing too delicate to truly enjoy life. Makeup and accessories. Fragility. Old things of lace and beauty.Refinement. Small gifts given with deep feeling.
The Caution: The artificial sob story. False sympathy. Askingfor love when in reality one doesn’t really want it. Impracticalbelongings. Things that get shunted aside as irrelevant,unworthy or unusable. Things of little use in today’s world. Mass
manufacturing. Things made in sweatshops.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 15
If you are not too long, !willwait here for you all my life.
Oscar Wilde
I wear my heart on my sleeve.Diana—Princess of Wales
HANDKERCHIEF, n.A smallsquare of silk or linen, usedin various ignoble officesabout the face and especiallyserviceable at funerals to
conceal the lack of tears.
Ambrose Bierce
A diplomat is aman whoalways renembers a woman's
birthday but never her age.Robert Frost
A little sincerity is a dangerousthing, and a great deal of it isabsolutely fatal.Oscar Wilde
Fame is the perfume of heroicdeeds.Socrates
So, as you go into battle,
remember your ancestors andremember your descendants.Publius Cornelius Tacitus
No duty is more urgent thanthat of returning thanks.St. Ambrose
The better part of valor isdiscretion.Shakespeare

6-16: DELIGHTED CHILDREN CROWD
AROUND THE ORANGUTAN CAGE IN
A ZOO
Commentary: ‘Delighted Children Crowd Around the OrangutanCage in a Zoo’, pictures young people pressing together to observeintriguing and wonderful animals that are unusual to them. Theydon’t have a chance to see these animals in their everyday life.Grown ‘Orangutans’ are very similar to ‘Children’, they are said tohave a similar mental capacity to that of a five year-old. ‘Children’have great fun watching their antics. The ‘Orangutan’ can also be seenobserving the ‘Children’. The responses of wonder and curiosity are
obviously evident in the ‘Delighted Children’, but may well be what the‘Orangutan’ are also experiencing. The ‘Children’ watch to see whatwill happen and they take pleasure in the things they can relate to.
Oracle: This Symbol expresses the desire to relate across gulfs ofdifferences that are very obvious between different species. Observingthe life of an ‘Orangutan’ is like looking into an evolutionary mirror.We are able to see where we have been, how differently we relate tothe world, and how we have chosen to deal with our environment. It
is not a matter of the human species being better. Indeed, one comesto realize the degree of similarity. Sometimes people we encounter in
life seem to be from a different species (or planet!) and have a totallyopposite perspective of life, leading to completely different ways ofacting and reacting. It can, at times, lead to a feeling of separation, butthere is value in remaining aware of and appreciating the similaritiesand common ground along with the differences. There may need tobe a “primitive”, or ‘Childlike’ response. It is also by facing the baserinstincts that you can realize a fresh, new approach to those around you.
Keywords: Karmic confrontations between the creatively integratedand the unevolved. Objects of derision, fascination or worship.Showing off or acting to get a reaction from others. Trying to relate
to others that don’t understand. Feeling like one is in a zoo. Observingothers. Curiosity. Crowding around. Everyone wanting to have a look.
Going by instincts. Television shows such as Jerry Springer. Newsnetworks. The media. Lack of social inhibition.
The Caution: Egoistic feelings of being better or in a higher state ofevolution. Having no place for privacy. Gaping at others. Tauntingpeople. Daring others to do something outrageous or animal-like.Making fun of people. Building cages. Hiding from view. Fences andbarriers. The intrusion of the media (beating up stories). Eliciting sickbehavior from others.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 16
There are 193 living species
of monkeys and apes. 192 ofthem are covered with hair.The exception is a naked ape,
self-named homo sapiens.
Desmond Morris
The city is not a concrete jungle,it isa human zoo.
Desmond Morris
Be tolerant of the human race.
Your whole family belongs to
it-— and some of your spouse’s
family does too.Anon
lama creationist; I refuse
to believe that I could haveevolved from humans.Anon
To be human is to keep rattlingthe bars of the cage of existencehollering, “Whats it for?”
Robert Fulghum
Man must realize his ownunimportance before he canappreciate his importance.R, M. Baumgardy
If an animal does something,we call it instinct; if we do thesame thing for the same reason,
we call it intelligence.Will Cuppy
If we evolved from the monkeys,why are there still monkeys?Kathleen Madigan

6-17: A VOLCANIC ERUPTION BRINGING
DUST CLOUDS, FLOWING LAVA,
EARTH RUMBLINGS
Commentary: ‘A Volcanic Eruption’ is ‘Bringing Dust Clouds,Flowing Lava and Earth Rumblings’. The ‘Volcano’ may have beenthreatening to erupt for some time, but now it’s actually doing it.The ‘Earth Rumblings’ imply possible threats of further, perhapsmore life changing, even catastrophic blasts; only time will tell.
Oracle: Somebody or something may have been holding thingsinside until a powerful force has built up to the point where there
can be no more resistance and everything is thrown, spewed or
forced out. This ‘Eruption’ could be expressed as anger, but also inthe explosive form of ideas, beliefs, goals and insights. It is oftenbest just to let it blow; resisting the urge can cause enormouspressure to build which can be harmful in many ways. However,
one needs to keep a watchful eye on the situation so things don’t getout of control, leading to hysteria and dramatic reactions. Thingscan get out of control very quickly. This often leaves “rubble”, or
mess, everywhere to be cleaned up. Watch out for overreactions.Is the force of emotions really related to the current situation?
Having or regaining complete control is possibly out of the questionuntil things settle down and the danger is past. There can be asense of relief when the realization of surviving such a situationsinks in. Sometimes, after we’ve been through a major shakeupand rattling in our lives, we can feel a sense of gratitude and calmand peace is restored. You may find yourself in a whole new placeor having extraordinary experiences on every level - physical,
emotional, spiritual or mental. Whatever has erupted may havebeen building up for years. There can be fertile soil after the ‘Lava’has flowed—soil that can contain nutrients and riches from deepdown inside your mind and body. What is coming out from within?What transformations can come from this?
Keywords: Thoughts or ideas pouring out. Torrents of thought or
emotion. Anger that needs expression. Eruptions that are quicklyovercome. Pressure cooker environments. After shocks. Waitingfor the dust to settle. Cathartic release. Volcanoes. Earthquakes.Earth tremors. Rumblings. Earth changes. Dust
The Caution: Suppression of anger or energy to the point ofexplosive disaster. Tantrums. Choking the air with sulfurousdust-clouds. Holding things inside. Overreactions. Spewing one’s
insides. Flipping out. Events that throw out shocking news or
emotions.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 17
As in an explosion, I woulderupt with all the wonderful
things I saw and understood inthis world.Boris Pasternak
You can have anything youwant ifyou want it desperately
enough. You must want it withan inner exuberance that eruptsthrough the skin and joins theenergy that created the world.Sheilah Graham
When the habitually eventempered suddenly fly into apassion, that explosion is apt
to be more impressive than theoutburst of the most violent
amongst us.Margery Allingham
If you go in for argument, takecare of your temper. Your logic,ifyou have any, will take careof itself.Joseph Farrell
Californians are good at
planning for the earthquake,while simultaneously denying itwill happen.Sheila Ballantyne
The human race likes to giveitself airs. One good volcanocan produce more greenhouse
gases in a year than the humanrace has in its entire history.Ray Bradbury

6-18: TWO GIRLS PLAYING WITH A OUIJA
BOARD
Commentary: ‘Two Girls Playing With a Ouija Board’. The ‘Girls’ arecurious to see what will happen if they contact spirits on the “otherside”. Indeed, it is said that it was ‘Two Girls’ who popularized theOuija Board in 1848. They were sisters from Hydesville, New York.
They became instant celebrities and sparked a national obsessionthat spread all across the United States and Europe, signaling thebirth of modern spiritualism.
Oracle: Here, the ‘Two Girls’ shows that there may be a need toshare your thoughts, explorations, dreams and ideas with another.
They are ‘Playing With a Ouija Board’—there is a desire to contacta deeper wisdom, possibly by the use of some kind of divinationaltool. You may need some form of assistance to help you focus on anymessages that are coming through. This “tool” can be many things; aOuija board, the Sabian Symbols, the I Ching, the tarot, etc. Wisdomand knowledge may come with time, serious intent and effort. Atfirst, there may be rather youthful and naive attempts to discover the
deeper meaning of life. Things may become a little strange; there canbe little control over what is coming through from “the other side”.You may have to just sit and observe. Sometimes there’s a need toexplore these realms with others and there is often something scary
about them. What is likely to happen if you leave yourself open and
vulnerable? This Symbol can suggest the need to be with someonewho shares the same beliefs and interests in life, and to have thecuriosity to find out things that may not be immediately apparent. If
someone you are in partnership with is reluctant to see things from
a similar spiritual or esoteric perspective as you, you might find the
relationship breaking down. One partner may be more “straight”,the other more eager to take a chance and explore.
Keywords: Immature curiosity leading to messages and inner
guidance. Listening devices. Tuning into possible meanings. Ouijaboards. Séances. Clairvoyant abilities. Spirits of the departed.Contact with the “other side”. Messages coming through fromunknown sources. Spiritualism. Ectoplasms. Concentrated attention.Poltergeists. Haunted houses. Cold energies. Bringing spirit through.Moving furniture. Phenomena. Weird and spooky. Seeing ghosts.Being a channel.
The Caution: Dealing with situations beyond one’s maturity. Looking
for information instead of getting on with life. Naive playing with
potentially dangerous elements. Seeking easy answers to avoidresponsibility. Fooling around. Superstitious responses to natural
phenomena.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 18
If I waited to be right before I spoke, I would be sending littlecryptic messages on the Ouijaboard, complaints from the
other side.
Audre Lorde
Imagination is the outreachingof mind.,.the bombardment ofthe conscious mind with ideas,impulses, images and every sortof psychic phenomena wellingup from the preconscious. It isthe capacity to dream dreams
and see visions.
Rollo May
People need hard times and
oppression to develop psychicmuscles.
Frank Herbert
In my writing I am acting as
a map maker, an explorer ofpsychic areas...a cosmonautof inner space,and I see no
point in exploring areas that
have already been thoroughlysurveyed.William S. Burroughs
Is there a spirit present?Standard Ouija board
question
You must pray carefully and
for the very essence of yourdesire or you will be caught upin many musings ofthings youmay not want for your ownexperience,Ouija message

6-19: A SWIMMING RACE
Commentary: A ‘Swimming Race’ is an image of peoplecompeting against each other in order to win some award, medal,recognition or goal. Each has to win their own ‘Race’ and go ashard as they possibly can for the objective. Rules and regulations
have to be followed, otherwise they face the possibility of being
“disqualified” from participating.
Oracle: You may find yourself in competition with others orworking your way through conflicting emotions and hoping towin, or come out on top. It is through hard work, practice and the
control of your self and emotions that success can be achieved.The lessons learnt through your training must be called on now.Have faith in yourself and your abilities that you can win. Youmay be working hard at achieving the win for rewards in thelarger picture (for club, school, country) or winning the race withpurely personal gains in mind. If it’s an intellectual or emotional‘Race’ that you’re competing in, it may at times be easier to letthe other “win”. Although winning can be really wonderful, afeeling of constant competition and the desire to come out on topcan wear you and others down, and take the joy and spontaneityout of life. Plus, there are no real winners when people compete
emotionally. Is the situation facing you worth the effort you mustput in? Ifit is, take a deep breath and go for it with all your might.If someone is just trying to outdo you, you might decide to pullout and let him or her go for it. People can’t win against you if
you're not competing against them and a refusal to compete maytake the wind out of their sails. The best way to win is to runyour Own race, compete against yourself and always do yourbest. Looking sideways at others to see how they’re doing canslow you down and weaken your performance. Look ahead andgo for your own objectives, doing the best you can is the best
you can do, after all!
Keywords: Looking sideways to see how others are coping
with the strain of competition. Competing with one’s emotions.Capitalism. The striving for first place or greatness. Swimming,sports, competition. Wanting to be first at everything. Learninghow fit one is. Concentrating on the goal. Medals and awards.Training and practice. Showing your abilities in front of others.
The Caution: Allowing the competitive spirit to dominateemotional sensitivity. Always going for “the win”. Trying to outdoeach other. Being on the go all the time. Bad sportsmanship. Notknowing how to lose. Wanting always to conquer others. Alwaysseeing others as competitors.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 19
In between goals is a thing
called life, that has to be livedand enjoyed.Sid Caesar
Picture yourself vividly aswinning, and that alone willcontribute immeasurably tosuccess.Harry Emerson Fosdick
The battles that count aren'tthe ones for gold medals. Thestruggles within yourself—theinvisible, inevitable battles inside
all of us—that’s where it’s at.Jesse Owens
When you are content to
be simply yourself anddon’t compare or compete,everybody will respect you.Lao-Tzu
The difference between a heroand an also—ran is the guywho hangs on for one last gasp.Paul Dietzel
Of all human powers operatingon the affairs of mankind,none is greater than that ofcompetition.Henry Clay
Live daringly, boldly, fearlessly.Taste the relish to be found in
competition — in having put
forth the best within you.Henry J. Kaiser

6-20: A CARAVAN OF CARS HEADED FOR
PROMISED LANDS
Commentary: ‘A Caravan of Cars Headed for Promised Lands’shows a group of people setting out on a journey to a better placeor a better way of life. They’ve probably heard word that life ismore promising in some distant place and they’re packed up andare moving in that direction. The ‘Promised Lands’ can literallymean the west coast of America; however, in general terms itmeans a land that contains some reward, a new way of living.
Oracle: There is a feeling of the need to move on to new thoughts,new ways of doing things, possibly even a new way of life, but you
are unlikely to be alone. As this is ‘A Caravan of Cars’ there are
probably several others who share the same desires and impulses.Setting out on a new venture can feel very exciting, especially
if friends, family or colleagues are as enthusiastic as you are. Itmay not be a matter of whether these ‘Promised Lands’ havereal guarantees of satisfaction or reward, but there’s the need,or desire, to explore these fresh opportunities for the potentials
they may hold. The simple act of moving to overcome stagnantlifestyles can create the possibility of some kind of ‘Promise’.Making a commitment to overcome dull routines and leave thepast behind with those who share a like mind and intention maybe all that is necessary to open the path to a new reality. Heading
for the future with a keen sense of excitement and anticipation
can open you up to all sorts of possibilities and hope. Some kind
of new ‘Land’ or opportunity is an inevitable outcome of thischange. Indeed, it can lead to a whole new life. This being said,one should stop for a moment and ponder the reasons for moving
on. Do you have to leave loved ones behind in this quest? Is thisquest based in reality, or is it something that has more ‘Promise’than reality?
Keywords: Venturing into life with like-minded companions. Thesupport of others in a quest for the future. Seeking new territory.
Rallies and caravans of cars. Exchanging money. Commerce.Buses, caravans, trucks, etc. Leaving behind the known for theunknown. Gypsies. Hollywood. California. “Boom” towns. The“magic bus”. Conferences.
The Caution: Forsaking the individual path in favor of a moresecure, common one. Perpetuating restlessness. Constantlyseeking the “pot of gold”. Far-off lands. Inability to settle anywhere.Being a rolling-stone. Forsaking lasting relationships. Crazy goosechases. Running away from problems. Fear of flying.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 20
Wherever you go, go with all
your heart.
Confucius
Go for it now. The future is
promised to no one.Wayne Dyer
Hitch your wagon to a star.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Those that say you can’t takeit with you never saw a carpacked for a vacation trip.Anon
It isa curious thing that every
creed promises a paradisewhich will be absolutely
uninhabitable for anyone of
civilized taste.Evelyn Waugh
We were all on this ship in the
sixties, our generation, a shipgoing to discover the NewWorld.John Lennon
For where does one run to whenhe’s already in the PromisedLand?
Claude Brown
Anomad I will remain for
life, in love with distant anduncharted places.Isabelle Eberhardt
The Promised Land guaranteesnothing. It is only an
opportunity, not a deliverance.
Shelby Steele

6-21: A GIRL’S BASKETBALL TEAM
Commentary: ‘A Girl’s Basketball Team’ is pictured. They may belighthearted about their game, enjoying the fun, the friendship,and the sportsmanship. Whether this is a professional or amateurgame, there is a need to cooperate with others and to play bythe rules of the game to achieve the 'Team’s' goals. Some on the'Team' however, may take the outcome very seriously, like it's a“life and death” situation. Playing the game to the best of theirability is necessary, as they will be judged by the others in the
team, their coach and those on the sidelines. Popularity is often afactor, with some on the ‘Team’ being star players and trendsettersand others merely making up the numbers, there to close thegaps and pass the ball.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, working with friends andthose with similar interests will enable you to join together to
achieve a mutually desired end. Which role do you play in the
“game”? Are you happy with your status in the ‘Team’? Do you get
recognition for the part you play or for what you do, or do you
blend into the crowd, not standing out in any way? Regardless ofoutcomes, there’s a need to enjoy the game and encourage groupcohesion. Are people hogging the ball, or are they being fair andpassing it when necessary? Are enough people getting to really
play the game? Are people passing the ball to each other fairly?Is this a social game or are the stakes much higher? Do outcomesseem very serious? Whatever, respecting each other and givingeach other a fair crack at having their moment of glory is thebest for all concerned. Do you want to be a star player or be ina ‘Team’ of stars? Without team-effort no one will get to be onastar ‘Team’ because it takes "teamwork" to shine and win. Lookat how you and others play the game.
Keywords: The give and take of unity and equality. Everyone
getting to play the game. Joyful participation. Friendship andsport. Fast footwork. Winning and losing. Being in the team.Playing fair and square. Coaching and practice. The need for alevel playing ground. Uniforms. Codes of behaviour and play.
Locker room antics.
The Caution: Forcing others to compete on the same levelwithout regard for differences. Finding it difficult to play by the
rules or cooperate. Bitchiness and rivalry taking the fun out ofplaying. Petulance and spitting the pacifier. Some being stars
while others are merely drones. Taking things too seriously.Tantrums. The desire to win at all costs.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 21
Please don’t ask me what thescore is; I’m not even sure whatthe game is.Ashleigh Brilliant
A particular shot or way ofmoving the ball can bea
player’s personal signature,but efficiency of performanceis what wins the game for theteam.Pat Riley
A team should never practice
on a field that is not lined. Yourplayers have to become awareof the field’s boundaries.
John Madden
If a team is to reach itspotential, each player mustbe willing to subordinate his
personal goals to the good of
the team.Bud Wilkinson
Individual commitmentto a group effort—that iswhat makes a team work, acompany work, a society work,a civilization work.Vince Lombardi
One man can be a crucialingredient on a team, but oneman cannot make a team.Kareem Abdul-Jabbar
Life begins when you get out ofthe grandstand into the game.P.L. Debevoise

6-22: A ROYAL COAT OF ARMS ENRICHED
WITH PRECIOUS STONES
Commentary: A ‘Royal Coat of Arms Enriched With PreciousStones’ is shown. The term a ‘Coat of Arms’, refers to the customoriginating in the 11th to 15th centuries, in England, of knightsdisplaying their ‘Arms’ on a tunic or coat worn over armor foridentification. Royalty bestowed the ‘Royal Coats of Arms’. Thedesign of individual ‘Coats of Arms’ varies, but all include thingssuch as animals, words, and colors. Along with people, towns,
regions and countries can have ‘Coats of Arms’.
Oracle: There is a strong connection to heritage, one’s lineage and
ancestors. This can give rise to feelings or pride and honor. Thereare things to stand up for and to represent. Being true to yourheritage or beliefs will empower you with strength and stability. —
There can be the appearance, or the impression of, wealth, no
matter what the actual financial status. There is a need to project
a sense of nobility of character, pride and confidence as adoptingthese strengths will see you through this situation. Sometimessomeone believes that they’re “above” everyone else and theylord it over others believing they have a “god given right” to be incharge, bully or call the shots. In situations of trouble, difficultyor betrayal Gin fact any challenging emotion), falling back on abelief of your own “royalty”, combined with a good sense of selfworth and who you are will help you get through with grace andwithout incurring bad blood or enemies or letting yourself down.Displaying markings of noble status and bearing, even if this isjust in your behavior, can lead others to see and believe in yourbeauty, talent and worth.
Keywords: A long lineage standing behind. Social stratas.Royalty. Issues of social standing and identity. Having a regalbearing. Aristocratic status. Nobility. Coats of Arms. Strength ofassociation. Pure blood. Ancestors of worth or note. Hereditarylines. Having rights and prestige. Pageantry. Knights jousting.Inheritances. Wealthy lineage. Displays of grace and honor. Beautyand wealth no matter what the status. Tartans. Precious stones.Shields. Inscriptions.
The Caution: Superficial judgment on one’s ancestry. Believing inprivileges for the select few. Seeing others as not being worthy.
Class-consciousness. Snobbery. Having “slaves” to do everything.Being “in the club”. Elite school snobbery. Bastardizing others.
Feeling above everyone because of lineage.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 22
Every king springs from a race
of slaves, and every slave has
had kings among his ancestors.Plato
There is no king who has
not had a slave among hisancestors, and no slave who has
not had a king among his. Helen
Keller
Dignity is not negotiable. Dignityis the honor of the family.Vartan Gregorian
When I want a peerage,I shall
buy one like an honest man.Lord Northcliffe
Nobility has its obligations.Duc De Levis
We are not a family, we're a firm.George VI
It is indeed a desirable thingto be well descended, but theglory belongs to our ancestors.Plutarch
My mother told me! wasblessed, and! have alwaystaken her word for it. Being
born of—or reincarnated from
—royalty is nothing like being
blessed. Royalty is inherited
from another human being;
blessedness comes from God.Duke Ellington
Honor wears different coats todifferent eyes.Barbara Tuchman

6-23: A LION-TAMER RUSHES FEARLESSLY
INTO THE CIRCUS ARENA
Commentary: ‘A Lion-Tamer’ is seen. He ‘Rushes Fearlessly intothe Circus Arena’. The ‘Lion-Tamer’ needs to really know whathe’s doing; if not, he could be putting his life on the line. Not onlydoes he have to be completely professional; he also has to be sure
of his skill and display a complete lack of fear. Weakness of any
description can have disastrous consequences.
Oracle: With this degree, there’s a need for self-discipline andmastery. Being prepared to take on things that are “unknown” orrisky, may lead to excitement, but how much is being risked in
order to accept the challenge? One has to be cautious with every
move, as there’s the need to anticipate every type of outcome or
eventuality. In order to survive or “win” in this situation, there’sa need to bite the bullet and to put fears behind you. It is not thatyou need to extinguish powerful emotions and energies, but byskillfully manipulating things, the outcome will see you beingthe one in charge. As long as you're aware of all the possibleconsequences, things should turn out okay. However, with thisSymbol, there is a question as to what degree the risks are real and
to what degree they are imagined. It is common for the lions tobe well fed by the ‘Lion-Tamer’ before he ventures into the arena,reducing any real risk of danger. The audience, oblivious of themethods the ‘Lion-Tamer’ utilizes or undertakes, are gripped bytheir own fears or the way they believe they would act if they were
in his place Hence, this Symbol can reflect that you are allowingothers to think you are braver, and taking more risks than you reallyare. This can give you an advantage over others for a while, but the"audience" can easily become disillusioned if the truth becomes
known. Whatever, how prepared are you for what may happen?
Once you're out there, in the ‘Circus Arena’, you’re committed to
it, with no easy turning back.
Keywords: Having faith and courage in your abilities. Sublimatinganimal instincts. Control. Fearlessness. Professionalism. Extremism.
Adrenaline rushes. Dangerous spectacles. Training and conditionedresponses. Restrained passion. Coordination and skill. Superheroes.Holding the whip.
The Caution: Needing to be in control. Believing that things aredependent on your direction. Showing off and boasting. Plunginginto situations, physically or emotionally, that are inherently
dangerous without regard for the consequences. Overplaying one’sabilities. Dominant attitudes. Taking on anything and anyone.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 23
A great part of courage is the
courage of having done the
thing before.Ralph Waldo Emerson
CIRCUS, n.A place where horses,
ponies and elephants arepermitted to see men, womenand children acting the fool.
Ambrose Bierce
Nothing noble is done without
risk,Andre Gide
The wicked flee when no onepursues, but the righteous arebold as alion.
Traditional Proverb
Half the failures of this worldarise from pulling in one’s horseas he is leaping.Augustus W. Hare
Love is the only force capableof transforming an enemy intoa friend.Martin Luther King, Jr
Mankind are animals thatmake bargains, no other animaldoes this.Adam Smith
My contributions were many:First clown director, withwitty sayings and flashilydressed, now called master ofceremonies.Jelly Roll Morton

6-24: MARY AND HER WHITE LAMB
Commentary: ‘Mary and Her White Lamb’ is a Symbol reflecting
innocence and purity. It is derived from an old nursery rhyme;‘Mary’s White Lamb’ followed 'Mary' wherever she mightgo. They had a very strong bond between them. The 'Lamb'seemed to be very taken by 'Mary' as was 'Mary' by the Lamb.There is a strong sense, a need to be watchful for dependent orcodependent behavior with others. This story shows a strongsense of attachment and dependence.
Oracle: Is someone following someone else around, or actinglike a doe-eyed lamb? Maybe they are constantly checking on
the other, wanting to know their every move. Are they trying to
monopolize someone, whilst excluding others? If one were toleave the scene, how would the other react? Sometimes, whatseems to be “codependent” behavior is someone merely looking
out for your best interests, so don’t assume the worst right away.Look at their motives, or your own, for that matter, for any clingybehavior and assess why they are behaving the way they are.Having a belief in the integrity of people and the purity of theirmotives can bring joy and a sense of belonging. There is usually a
strong feeling of kindness and softness with this Symbol. Keeping
a sense of innocence, purity and honesty in the situation will liftyou up and out of any problems. Being kind and yet firm, loving
and yet a separate individual and sharing without losing your
boundaries can lead to a wonderful, pure experience of love and
friendship. There’s a need for imagination mixed with simplicity.However, there can be a feeling of being “lost” in the wildernesswhen there’s no support or reassurance from others. In terms ofrelationships, there can be an imbalance where one person looksup to the other. Be watchful to see if anyone is giving away theirpower in this situation.
Keywords: Simple childlike innocence or pure escapism. Naivety.
The Mary and Jesus story. Dependence. Kindness. Friendship.Bonds between pets and owners. Believing in the essentialgoodness of others. Hanging out with people. Looking out for
someone. Cuteness. The urge to prove something. Dislike of dirtor grime. Being ‘addicted’ to someone or something.
The Caution: Naiveté. Avoiding real issues. Stalking.Overprotection. Doubting motives. Paranoia that someone is
following you. Feeling lost without the other. Doe-eyed attraction.Clinging to people. Arousing jealousy through favoritism. Not
leaving people alone. Checking people’s whereabouts. Not
growing up. Being the black sheep.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 24
Manifest plainness,
Embrace simplicity,Reduce selfishness,Have few desires.Lao-Tzu
There are perhaps no daysof our childhood we lived so
fully as those we spent with afavorite book.Marcel Proust
A man’ action is only a picturebook of his creed.Ralph Waldo Emerson
The only gift is a portion ofthyself... the poet brings his
poem; the shepherd his lamb.Ralph Waldo Emerson
So much perfection arguesrottenness somewhere.Beatrice Webb
Mary had a little lamb,Its fleece was white as snow;And everywhere that MarywentThe lamb was sure to go.Nursery rhyme
Mary had alittle lamb.
The doctor was surprised.Urban joke
A loving heart is the truestwisdom.Charles Dickens

6-25: A FLAG AT HALF-MAST IN FRONT OF
A PUBLIC BUILDING
Commentary: ‘A Flag at Half-Mast in Front of a Public Building’ isa Symbol of accomplishment and achievement coupled with theloss or mourning for someone or something that has died, beencompleted or abandoned in some way. It can picture carrying
a task through to completion. Now it is time for recognition ofwhat’s been accomplished during the life that's been lived. This
Symbol ean sometimes produce a feeling of loss, like somethinghas passed from one’s life.
Oracle: This Symbol reflects the need for the acknowledgement
or public display of something that has passed on or disappeared
from your life. It may be important to let others know that therehas been a change of some kind or a passing on, This may be alonely passage or it may involve many others. The display should
not be noisy or overt, but a show of respect and accepted as a
normal part of life. This means that you don’t have to hide or
pretend that nothing has happened. Others may prefer to have a
simple and respectful sign that brings the loss to their attention.This allows for understanding without the embarrassment of
saying or doing the wrong thing in what may be a sensitive andemotional time for both yourself and others. The fact that this‘Flag’ is in ‘Front of a Public Building’ implies that this passingaway may have importance to many in the community. People,or groups wearing a black armband are similar to the flag at‘Half-Mast’. Grieving may be a necessary part of the process, butit is also a time for assimilating what it took to get you whereyou are.
Keywords: Public tribute and recognition. Political affairs.The desire to leave a legacy to society. Having the power to
sway the masses or authorities. Signs for all to see. Destinies
fulfilled. Coming together as a community or nation to share loss.
Judgment on one’s life. Appraisal of deeds and character. Publicholidays. Obituaries. Taking the time to grieve. Black armbands.Institutions that are closed. Mourning the loss of somebody
greatly admired.
The Caution: Feeling an obligation to carry on without takingtime to sort out issues from the past or mourn any loss.Devastation and mourning. The burning desire to leave behindsomething no matter what the cost. Things coming to a standstill.
Crocodile tears for what's passed away. Hypocritical mourning
for the chosen few.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 25
The monument of a great manis not of granite or marble
or bronze. It consists of hisgoodness, his deeds, his loveand his compassion.Alfred A. Montapert
A life spent in constant laboris a life wasted, save aman
be sucha fool as to regard afulsome obituary notice asample reward.
George Jean Nathan
To be remembered after we are
dead is but poor recompense
for being treated with contempt
while we are living.
William Hazlitt
If I have done any deed worthyof remembrance, that deed willbe my monument. If not, nomonument can preserve my
memory.Agesilaus II
lfyour contribution has been
vital there will always besomebody to pick up where youleft off, and that will be yourclaim to immortality.
Walter Gropius
It matters not how a man dies,
but how he lives.Samuel Johnson
The past is utterly indifferent toits worshippers.William Winter

6-26: A BOY WITH A CENSER SERVES NEAR
THE PRIEST AT THE ALTAR
Commentary: ‘A Boy’ is shown with a ‘Censer’. He ‘Serves Near the
Priest at the Altar’. The ‘Boy’ doesn’t have the experience or socialposition of the ‘Priest’, but that shouldn’t put him off his duties. His
position and responsibilities are still important. In a Catholic church
service, wine is drunk as a symbol of the blood of Christ. Wafersare placed on the tongues of the believers as the representation ofthe body of Christ. How the ‘Boy’ reacts to the ritual or ceremonywill depend on his upbringing, beliefs or temperament. He could
be rapt with fascination at what is being played out or he could be
indifferent, bored and really preferring to go home. It is unclear
whether the ‘Boy’ wants to eventually take the position of the older‘Priest’, or colleague, or not. He may grow up to do other things, butright now he’s got his position or duty to fulfill. This may be lessthan he’s actually able to do or is truly “qualified” to do.
Oracle: Be cautious of feeling that what you are doing isinconsequential; even the smallest contribution is an important
part of the whole and we all play our part in some measure.Sometimes there’s the need to wait things out until one is moremature, practiced or prepared to be in charge. Right now you maybe someone’s “right-hand man” and not in charge of proceedings. Amore exalted position will be attained, given time. Give reverence
and respect to your everyday routines, no matter how insignificant
they seem and you will find your sense of hope renewed. However,watch out for any feelings of jealousy that someone is bigger, better,more experienced or more respected than the other. Measuring
one’s self by the successes of others can be useful, except when itdegrades your belief in yourself, or in others. In your situation whois the ‘Priest’ and who is the ‘Boy’?
Keywords: Youthful attitudes. Doing what’s simple, with silenceand devotion. Participating in the toil but not the glory. Altarsand shrines. Incense. Burning candles. Passing down wisdomand knowledge. Looking up to those in power. Work experience.
Apprenticeships. Feelings of awe and respect. Religious and socialceremonies. Issues of authority and the abuse of it.
The Caution: Being dominated by spiritual hierarchy that is devisedby human rationalism. Doing “lesser things” to avoid responsibility.Not taking a place of authority when one could or should. Feelingnot good enough because of inexperience. Someone always hangingaround. Incompetence. Refusal to take instruction. Sexual abuse.Betrayal of beliefs. The church overpowering one's life.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 26
Aman who pays respect to the
great paves the way for his owngreatness.Chinese Proverb
Freedom—to walk free and ownno superior.Walt Whitman
I don’t know what your destiny
will be, but one thing |know: theonly ones among you who will
be really happy are those whohave sought and found how toserve,
Albert Schweitzer
Everybody can be great...because anybody can serve. Youdon’t have to have a collegedegree to serve. You don’t haveto make your subject and verbagree to serve. You only needa heart full of grace.A soulgenerated by love.Dr. Martin Luther King Jr
It is time I stepped aside for a lessexperienced and less able man.Scott Elledge
The surest way to corrupt a
youth is to instruct him to hold
in higher regard those who
think alike than those who thinkdifferently.Friedrich Nietzche
It is amazing what you canaccomplish ifyou do not carewho gets the credit.Harry S.Truman

6-27: ARISTOCRATIC ELDERLY LADIES
DRINKING AFTERNOON TEA INA
WEALTHY HOME
Commentary: ‘Aristocratic Elderly Ladies Drinking AfternoonTea in a Wealthy Home’ is a Symbol of people meeting to sharea drink, something to eat, and a little chatter or gossip. The factthat they are ‘Aristocratic’ and ‘Elderly’ implies that they have
everything they need, and quite possibly more. It also shows that
they have an air of ‘Wealth’ and grace about them, regardless of
how ‘Wealthy’ they actually are.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, regardless of your actualfinancial situation, there’s a need to face things with elegantcomposure. This will attract the respect of others. There is noneed to hurry and rush; however being punctual and on time isprobably important. Sharing your time with people who quietlyknow and understand each other can bring peace of mind andthe opportunity to relax and take time off. Sometimes, however,
issues that really should be discussed are “masked” and coveredup in an effort to keep things looking respectable. Sharing storiesand gossiping can be rather healthy, as long as things are keptwithin the bounds of friendship and decency. Others can feel
excluded, sometimes, particularly younger people and men. Theymay feel that they don’t fit in or measure up. Is everybody havinga relaxing ‘Afternoon Tea’, or are they trying to outdo each otherin some measure?
Keywords: Quite knowing atmosphere. Enjoying the company ofothers. Special privileges. Taking time off to relax, confident thatall is ok. The elite versus the masses. The appreciation of culture.Beauty and wealth. Gossip and chatter. Afternoon teas, brunches
and lunches. Charity drives. Being in the group. Exclusivity vs.
open armed acceptance. Ladies at the club. Girls having fun.Knowing how to entertain. Joy in social communion. Servants.Fine furnishings. Fine china. Silver cutlery. Candles. Bridge games.
Toasting abundance. Tea, coffee, cake and biscuits. Afternoon
sources. Soirees.
The Caution: Snobbery and elitism. Always having to go to othersor have them come to you. People expecting others to do all thework while they just sit around and chat. Mindless talk. Indulgentbehavior. Having little to think about or do. Exclusion of othersas not being worthy. Loneliness. Being rowdy and unkempt.
Uncouth behaviour. "Hitting the bottle".
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 27
There are chapters in every life
which are seldom read and
certainly not aloud.
Carol Shields
To a philosopher all news, as itis called, is gossip,and they who
edit and read it are old women
over their tea.Henry David Thoreau
Where there are friends there iswealth.Titus Maccius Plautus
Don’t take up a man’s timetalking about the smartness of
your children; he wants to talkto you about the smartness ofhis children.
Ed Howe
Thank God for Tea! What would
the world do without tea? Howdid it exist? !am glad! was notborn before tea.Sydney Smith
I have measured out my life
with coffee spoons.T. S. Eliot
Frequently the more trifling the
subject, the more animated
and protracted the discussion.
Franklin Pierce
‘Tis the privilege of friendshipto talk nonsense, and have hernonsense respected.Charles Lamb

6-28: A BALDHEADED MAN IN UNIFORM
HAS SEIZED POWER
Commentary: A ‘Baldheaded Man in Uniform Has Seized Power’.This pictures a situation where male power is dominant. The factthat this person is pictured as being ‘Baldheaded’ doesn't literallyhave to mean that he is ‘Bald’. Baldness has long been associated
with macho strength and testosterone. The fact that he’s seenas being ‘In Uniform’ shows that this person has, or needs to begiven, a position of authority or ‘Power’. However, this ‘Uniform’
may give him more of this perceived ‘Power’ than perhaps he
should have or deserves to have.
Oracle: This may be the time to ‘Seize Power’ and to pushforward with decisions that need to be realized and groundednow. Someone may need to take a stand and direct the course
of action. It is most likely by force of will that the best solutionwill be found, but one must be careful to temper the situation, asstrong displays of masculinity could get out of hand very quickly.Somebody may be pushing their agenda a little too hard, takingover and showing control issues. There are times when someonehas to take charge—the question is in this situation; are they doing
it wisely and kindly? Is love guiding their decisions or are they
just being pushy and forceful? If someone is being over the top
and bossy, this may be because of feelings of inferiority that theyare trying to mask or cover up, especially if they feel that life haspassed them by. Reigning in the many facets of one’s personalityinto a single focus of action can work wonders now.
Keywords: Dominating other’s mental space. Male hormones
running rampant. Issues to do with hair. Ponytails. The storyof Samson and his hair. Taking positions of power. Uniforms.Demanding others follow one’s lead. Strutting one’s stuff.“Wearing the pants in the family”. The ability to direct and
organize many people. Letting others express their opinions orhave a say. Domination. The Government. The Military. Decisions
based on logic. Taking action or control.
The Caution: Pushing too hard or fast. Ramming one’s convictions.Being unkind and bossy. Putting on a show because one’s inuniform. Power tripping. Being cruel and domineering. Lordingit over others. Being opportunistic. Corruption. Misuse of power.
Bullying. Big business calling the shots. Domestic violence. Takingcharge because one can. Strict rules to live your life by. Takingover. Not listening to what others have to say.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 28
All I want is awarm bed and
a kind word, and unlimitedpower.Ashleigh Brilliant
All violence, all that is drearyand repels, is not power, but the
absence of power.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
My fellow Americans. I've
signed legislation that willoutlaw Russia forever. Webegin bombing in five minutes.
President Reagan
I have never been able toconceive how any rational
being could propose happinessto himself from the exercise ofpower over others.Thomas Jefferson
No person is your friend whodemands your silence, or denies
your right to grow.Alice Walker
Never get angry. Never make
a threat. Reason with People.
Mario Puzo—from the Godfather
Never strike your wife, even with
a flower.
Hindu Proverb
Power tends to corrupt, and
absolute power corrupts
absolutely.
Lord Acton

6-29: A MAN IS GAINING SECRET
KNOWLEDGE FROM AN ANCIENT
SCROLL HE IS READING
Commentary: ‘A Man is Gaining Secret Knowledge From anAncient Scroll He is Reading’. He’s learning insights and things thatwill most likely further him in life and his quest for knowledge.The ‘Ancient Scroll’ obviously contains some very important
information. In order to really gain this ‘Secret Knowledge’, he
needs to pay attention to every detail and not overlook anything.
The clues he is gathering may help him lead a fuller, more spirituallife, or they may assist him in his hobby or profession.
Oracle: This ‘Ancient Scroll’ that the ‘Man is Gaining SecretKnowledge’ from can literally refer to written material, but itcan also mean unwritten things, the myths and stories that are
the base elements of our humanity. It is, however, the ability totranslate this ‘Knowledge’ into a practical set of lessons for ourday-to-day life that assists our progress as we grow and mature.Stories from the past and from mythology are the verbalization
of our inner archetypes. An Oracle is something that reveals
‘Secret knowledge’; our own inner wisdom can be revealed by
the inspiration of an Oracle. The most seemingly insignificantinformation can often turn out to be valuable for future
understanding or for our experiences. There may be the feelingof not knowing what to do, or of not knowing what is going on.To gain a sense of clarity in your situation, go back to the basicor essential truths of the matter. This may indeed be the innerwisdom of the ages. Modern solutions may not be of use at thistime. Understanding will come through patient, steady work andilluminating inspiration.
Keywords: Learning from ancient mysteries. Looking for answers.Study and its rewards. Reading between the lines. Finding cluesfrom the past and applying them to the present. Being privileged
to look into something special. Alchemy. The Bible, the Torah
and the Koran. Manuscripts. Scrolls. Ancient writings. Akashic
records. Classified documents. Secret papers. Scribes.
The Caution: Failing to acknowledge old wisdom or refusingthe new. Losing one’s common sense. Losing touch with reality.Reading importance into things that are not real or useful.Conspiracy theories. Religious zealotry. Feeling gifted over therest. Finding nothing interesting in the everyday, modern world.Being single-minded.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 29
On leaf of palm, on sedge-wrought roll; on plastic clay andleathern scroll, man wrote histhoughts; the ages passed, andlo! The Press was found at last!
John Greenleaf Whittier
History is the unrolled scroll ofprophecy.James A. Garfield
To furnish the means ofacquiring knowledge is ... thegreatest benefit that can beconferred upon mankind. Itprolongs life itself and enlargesthe sphere of existence.John Quincy Adams
All men by nature desire
knowledge.Aristotle
All human knowledge takes theform of interpretation.Walter Benjamin
Through zeal knowledge isgotten, through lack of zeal knowledge is lost.Buddha
Memory is the scribe of the soul.Aristotle
There is nothing new except thatwhich has become antiquated.Lycee Rose Bertin

6-30: HAVING AN URGENT TASK TO
COMPLETE, A MAN DOESN'T LOOK
TO ANY DISTRACTIONS
Commentary: ‘Having an Urgent Task to Complete, a Man Doesn'tLook To Any Distractions’ shows the need for an undisturbedfocus in application and not allowing ‘Distractions’ to interfere.The person pictured here has got something that needs to bedone and completed, and he doesn’t let anything ‘Distract’ himfrom it.
Oracle: There is a need to pay complete attention to the jobat hand as this is necessary now in order to get things done.Pushing through with the work and avoiding temptations
regardless of what’s going on around you will hasten the rewardsof completion. However, sometimes friends, lovers, partners orchildren require our assistance, and we have to drop what we’d
rather be doing. If these intrusions happen time and time again,we can feel loaded down with responsibilities that aren’t ours,and can be weighed down by not getting on with what we reallyneed to achieve. We must remember to put time and effort intowhat we want to accomplish, and not allow ourselves to be ledastray. Alternatively, you may be allowing these intrusions as a
way to solve boredom, or as an excuse to procrastinate. If thisdescribes your situation, ask yourself how much you actuallywant what you are trying to do. An exercise to improve clarityis keeping a goals list. Write down everything you need to do,
no matter how small, in order to realize your objectives. Everytime you tick something off, you are that much closer to gettingthem done. On the other hand, one can become bogged downin the attempt to complete something and actually accomplishnothing. If this is so, a closer focus on what it is that you reallyneed to achieve would help.
Keywords: Staying true to yourself and remaining on the pathor on the job. One-pointedness. Meditation. Blocking out theexternal world in order to achieve complete focus on a situation or
state of mind. Religious experiences. Maintaining one direction.
Seeing something through to completion. Taking the phone offthe hook. One-eyed behavior.
The Caution: Paying attention to outside influences. Letting theslightest excuse take one away from what needs to be done.
Rigidity of thought or action leading to missed creative or intuitiveopportunities. Obsession. Indulgences. Workaholics. Addictionsand destructive behavior. Superficial distractions.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Virgo 30
I love deadlines. I especiallylike the whooshing sound theymake as they go flying by.Douglas Adams
While we are postponing, lifespeeds by.Seneca
For all sad words of tongue andpen, the saddest are those ‘itmight have been.
John Greenleaf Whittier
It is not enough to beindustrious;so are the ants.What are you industrious about?
Henry David Thoreau
The person who says it can’t bedone should not interrupt theperson doing it.
Chinese Proverb
Until you value yourself, you will
not value your time. Until youvalue your time, you will not doanything with it.M. Scott Peck
There is not any memorywith less satisfaction than the
memory of some temptation we
resisted.James Branch Cabell
Every man who possibly canshould force himself to a holidayof a full month in a year, whether
he feels like taking it or not.William James

7-1: A BUTTERFLY PRESERVED AND
MADE PERFECT WITH A DART
THROUGH IT
Commentary: ‘A Butterfly Preserved and Made Perfect With a DartThrough It’ is an image of beauty captured and preserved for it
to be admired and appreciated. People such as Marilyn Monroe,
James Dean, J.F.K., Princess Diana can appear like the ‘Butterflythat is Preserved and Made Perfect’. They inspire awe and beauty inus, they represent something we aspire to and long for. No matterhow old they were when they died, their deaths feel somewhat likea sacrifice; they left us far too soon. However, like the ‘Butterfly’,they will remain forever beautiful and unchanging in our minds and
culture. Their ‘Butterfly’ is ‘Preserved and Made Perfect’ by beingKept forever in this ‘Perfect’ unchanging state.
Oracle: Beauty in shape or form has been frozen in one moment,denying the natural processes of decay. An archetypal death is
symbolized and perhaps a type of ‘Perfection’ is enshrined through asacrifice. As inspiring as this process can be, it can show difficultiesin shifting or moving on. This Symbol can also picture an event thatis frozen in time, like something that we just can’t forget or let go of.Feelings of being stuck and immobilized, whether real or imagined,won't help at the moment. Perhaps there’s a feeling that you, orsomeone else, are being used for something that you don’t agreewith or can't really benefit from. A movie may be playing in yourmind, over and over, like it’s somehow pinned ona ‘Dart’. Whateverthe situation, is there progress being made or is this a situation ofcapture, sacrifice and death? Is something being postponed because
of an inability to move? What sacrifices are being asked? Is sacrificereally necessary, or is someone being used as a martyr, tied to a
situation or an ideal? Are judgments being made on outer beauty
rather than inner depth? Are issues from the past pinning you down
and stopping you from forward movement?
Keywords: Perfection and beauty made immortal. Holding ontothings or events from the past. Unchanging realities. Moments frozenin time. Superficiality. External beauty that’s lacking animation.Pinning things up so they can be admired. The “handiwork” ofcreation on display. Transfiguration. Suspension in time. Posters.
The Caution: Impinging others’ growth for selfish needs. Surrenderand immobilization. Pinned down and unable to move. The attemptto freeze things from growing naturally. Placing importance onpreserving appearances at the expense of all else. Staying far toolong. Seeing no future. Having no past. Not letting go.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 1
Life is short.Time is fleeting.Realize the Self. Purity of theheart is the gateway to God.Aspire. Renounce. Meditate.Be good; do good. Be kind; becompassionate. Inquire, knowThyself.
Sivananda
The butterfly counts not
months but moments, and hastime enough.Rabindranath Tagore
A thing is right when it tends topreserve the integrity, stability,
and beauty of the biotic
community. It is wrong when ittends otherwise.Aldo Leopold
LIFE, n.A spiritual picklepreserving the body from decay.
We live in daily apprehension
of its loss; yet when lost it is not
missed.Ambrose Bierce
It is necessary to write, if thedays are not to slip emptilyby. How else, indeed, to clapthe net over the butterfly ofthe moment? for the moment
passes, it is forgotten; the mood
is gone; life itself is gone.
Vita Sackville-West
Love is like a butterfly, hold ittoo tight, it'll crush, hold it tooloose, it'll fly.Anon

7-2: THE LIGHT OF THE SIXTH RACE
TRANSMUTED TO THE SEVENTH
Commentary: The ‘Light of the Sixth Race Transmuted tothe Seventh’. This may be 2 time of new beginnings—the
implementation of a whole new order. A feeling of ascension is
present here, with people approaching an entirely new level of
living and operating. There’s a need to be with or communicate
with people who have shared visions and hopes for the future.We have a choice: the fruits of past experience can bring eitherlight or dark to the present.
Oracle: This Symbol can show a leap ahead in consciousness, somuch so that the old ways of functioning and living are no longersatisfying, or even possible. Sometimes the old codes for livingare actually somewhat unsustainable or unbearable. It’s best torespect the value of what is waning and leaving your life, takingall the best qualities of the past with you. Many things that wereimportant before have now lost their imperative. The objectivesthat one wants to aim for are, or have, changed radically in therealization of this new age. The aspects of modern society are
often left behind for a higher, more “evolved” state. This Symbol
often shows someone who is within reach of their ultimate
potential. A “new order” needs to be implemented and the time
has come for it to happen. There are likely to be many who sharethe same aspirations as you, people who are on the same road andsee the same signs. Join with those who are working at somethingtruly worthwhile, as this will see you moving further and furthertowards a chosen future, rather than one that is just foisted onyou by society. Some may not want to join you in your journey,
though. Regardless of this progression and ascension, there is aneed to remain rooted in the reality of practicality. Otherwise,
you, or someone else, may lose the way in the glamour or “fog”
that these new, sometimes deeply spiritual, realities can bring.
Keywords: Younger or more vital elements taking over fromthe elders. The fruits of the new age. Theosophy—Blavatsky’stheories. Finding kindred spirits. Sharing visions. Ascension andevolution. Inheritances that move one forward. Growing olderand wiser. UFO’s and aliens. Music that lifts one’s spirits. Gurusand avatars. Demarcations of evolution. Transmutations. Indigo
children. Evolving.
The Caution: Losing touch with practical survival. Can be racial(or other) discrimination. Feeling that one is from a “higher” order(or more evolved) than other people. Leaving others behind.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 2
It is not the strongest of thespecies that survive, nor themost intelligent, but the onemost responsive to change.Charles Darwin
All thatishuman mustretrograde if it does not advance.Edward Gibbon
Postmodernism represents amoment of suspension beforethe batteries are rechargedfor the new millennium,
an acknowledgment that
preceding the future is a strangeand hybrid interregnum that
might be called the last gasp ofthe past.Gilbert Adair
A culture is not an abstract thing.It is a living, evolving process.
The aim is to push beyondstandard—setting and asserting
human rights to make those
standards a living reality for
people everywhere.Mary Robinson
There is nothing more innatelyhuman than the tendency totransmute what has becomecustomary into what has beendivinely ordained.Suzanne LaFollette
Evolution ever climbing aftersome ideal good and reversionever dragging evolution in themud.
Lord Alfred Tennyson

7-3: THE DAWN OF A NEW DAY REVEALS
EVERY THING CHANGED
Commentary: ‘The Dawn of a New Day Reveals EverythingChanged’ pictures new beginnings that can be sudden and
unexpected. It’s like a new awakening; something new is takingshape and form and emerging into a ‘New Day’ and this ‘RevealsEverything Changed’. What was happening or evident just
recently, even just the ‘Day’ before, has ‘Changed’ through anevent or some shift of the mind or heart. Things are ‘Changed’;things are ‘New’, they are somehow different.
Oracle: This ‘New Day’ may not have ‘Dawned’ yet, but it isdefinitely on its way. It’s hard to believe at first, but eventually it
will ‘Dawn’ on you that many facets of your situation are different
in the light of this ‘New Day’. Life may have been difficult, or
things unsure, and you may feel like you’ve been through a long
night, or a period of darkness. Perhaps someone has been toocomfortable in their habits, or in their complacency, and has letthings just go on and on. There may need to be major changes in
attitude with the new situation or information before you, and
sometimes these changes are hard to adjust to, especially if what’s
happening hasn’t been your idea or your desired outcome. Takeheart, realize that the darkness is abating, and gradually let .goof what went before. Realize that it’s come time to let go of the
old conditions and move on. This is an opportunity to “seize theday”; to see that there is light all around you. A change of scene
can affect how you feel and how things appear. How does, or how
will, this ‘New Day’ affect you? Only you can know. However,getting up and seeing the ‘Dawn’ can bring spiritual messagesabout the direction you are moving towards. It can infuse you
with hope and energy for the future.
Keywords: New perspectives and realizations. Waking up toa whole new consciousness or sense of reality. Emerging from
depression. Huge changes that erase things that mattered before.Radical shifts. Major life experiences. Being reborn. Events out ofnowhere. Changes of fortune. Revitalized perspectives. Comingout of a sleep.
The Caution: Holding on despite all evidence and reason to moveon. Refusing to believe that things are getting better. Waking up
and not knowing where one is. Fickleness. Change for the sakeof change. Sticking with the old. Having to adjust continually tochanging circumstances. Unstable behavior.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 3
There is nothing in this worldconstant, but inconstancy.Jonathan Swift
Times change, and we changewith them.Anon
Things do not change, we
change.
Henry Thoreau
To go with the drift of things, Toyield with a grace to reason, Tobow and accept the end Ofalove or of a season.
Robert Frost
One should count each day aseparate life.Seneca
A day is a miniature eternity.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Finish each day and be donewith it. You have done whatyou could; some blundersand absurdities have crept in;forget them as soon as you
can. Tomorrow is a new day;you shall begin it serenelyand with too high a spirit tobe encumbered with your oldnonsense.Ralph Waldo Emerson
This is the highest wisdomthat | own; freedom and lifeare earned by those alone who
conquer them each day anew.
Johann Wolfgang Von Goethe

7-4: A GROUP OF YOUNG PEOPLE SIT IN
SPIRITUAL COMMUNION AROUND A
CAMPFIRE
Commentary: A ‘Group of Young People Sit in Spiritual CommunionAround a Campfire’ symbolizes the need for connecting with otherswho have similar feelings and shared beliefs. The ‘Group of YoungPeople’ are connected not only through their sense of generation;they ‘Sit in Spiritual Communion’ and are linked through theirinterests, beliefs and stories. Something they believe in has drawn
them together and this can bring a sense of ‘Spiritual Communion’
to each of them. They can each have a common focus that opens
them up to creative and receptive responses.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, there is bound to be a centralissue—the ‘Campfire’—that can bring many people, possiblyeveryone, together. There may be a feeling of being “out there”, in
the “wilderness”, but remember that you are not alone. Whetherphysically, spiritually, mentally or emotionally, others are with you
in some sense. Look to the “center”, the ‘Campfire’ that draws youtogether, to see who or what this is. It can be a belief, a religion, ora reunion of some kind. It can indeed be something as obvious asa ‘Fire’, or it can be something technological, such as the Internet,anything that brings people together in “a circle”, with a central focus.Loneliness and isolation can be overcome with a little concentratedattention, through joining with others in some kind of ‘Communion’.
Lighting a fire, even lighting a candle, can bring joy, pleasure and
a sense of ‘Spiritual Communion’. Rekindling energy can lead to a
deep sense of bonding and understanding. However, there can bea concern, or fear, that if one’s friends and fellows were to leave the“campsite” (whatever it is that brought you together), one could feellost, alone and abandoned to life and the elements. The ‘Fire’ canalmost become addictive, and lure you away from other things inyour life. This can lead to dependency and sometimes codependency
on others. Be sure to recognize your individuality in the situation,
and claim your power as an independent, but integral, part of the group.
Keywords: Material concerns left behind. Pioneering with like-minded others. Sweat lodges. Walks in the woods. Scouts andGirl Guides. Men’s groups, women’s groups. ESP. Kindred spirits.
Soul mates. Unity. Fellowship. Campfires. Camping. Friends and
companions. Spiritual circles.
The Caution: Being dependent on others. Feeling left out. Havingto fend for one’s self. Being lost in the wilderness. Obsession withobjectives.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 4
In everyone’ life, at some time,
our inner fire goes out. It is
then burst into flame by anencounter with another humanbeing. We should all be thankfulfor those people who rekindlethe inner spirit.Albert Schweitzer
After endless days of
commuting on the freeway toan antiseptic, sealed-windowOffice, there is a great urge tobackpack in the woods andbuild a fire.Charles Krauthammer
Even ina time of elephantinevanity and greed, one never hasto look far to see the campfires
of gentle people.Garrison Keillor
Civilization no longer needs toopen up wilderness; it needswilderness to open up the stilllargely unexplored human
mind.
David Rains Wallace
The hand of God is with thegroup.Saudi Arabian Proverb
Double, double, toil and trouble;
Fire burn and cauldron bubble.William Shakespeare
An agreeable companion onajourney is as good as a carriage.Publilius Syrus

7-5: A MAN TEACHING THE TRUE INNER
KNOWLEDGE OF THE NEW WORLD
TO HIS STUDENTS
Commentary: ‘A Man Teaching the True Inner Knowledge ofthe New World to His Students’ pictures somebody ‘Teaching’,instructing or passing on pure ‘Knowledge’, insights andmeaning about “The New World’ and the new age they live in.What he is ‘Teaching’ is somehow very important, valuable andexpansive to ‘His Students’. The more conventional certificationsof ‘Knowledge’, such as diplomas, are not necessarily what’simportant here. It’s the ‘Knowledge’ and awareness that is beingbrought through, taught and realized that’s important.
Oracle: Information and understanding is coming to you orthrough you. Insight, knowledge and expertise are available orpresent, or at least they need to be. True ‘Inner Knowledge’ is
available to all, no matter how “educated” one may be. If everyoneis coming from a true sense of this ‘Inner Knowledge’, there canbe whole ‘New Worlds’ built, with the foundations being passeddown from the ‘Teacher’ to the ‘Students’. Does everyone involvedhave the mindset and the “ears” to listen to what’s being taught?
Is the ‘Teacher’ radiating a pure sense of integrity regarding howhe teaches the ways of this ‘New World’? If so, this can picturea ‘True Teacher’, someone who can lead others on to a brighterand better future. However, sometimes there can be feelings ofsuperiority, that someone “knows it all”. Their ideas can be rather
uninspiring, yet they still try to foist them on anyone who'lllisten. The ‘Students’ who are truly learning are those who will
be the pioneers of the ‘New World’. How are you feeling about
your ‘Teachings’ and your lessons? What needs to be learnt on
an ‘Inner’ level? What can be passed on to others so they mightlearn, and improve their lives?
Keywords: Guidance and protection on the path. Being a guidinglight for others. Imparting knowledge. Wisdom. Looking fortruth. Seeking answers to complicated questions. Listening andlearning. Turning to others to receive guidance. Speaking one’struth. Instinctual knowledge. Pioneers on the path. Teachers and
students. Secrets of the new age.
The Caution: Dogmatism. Feeling that one person has the onlytrue answer. Feelings of being highly “evolved” and holding it
over other people’s heads. Arrogance. Evangelism. Telling others
“how it is”, regardless of how they feel. Gurus and cult dogma.The blind leading the blind.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 5
When the pupil is ready, theMaster appears.Confucius
Icalled the New World into
existence to redress the balance
of the Old.George Canning
We were all on this ship in thesixties, our generation, a shipgoing to discover the New World.
John Lennon
If you know you are on the righttrack, ifyou have this innerknowledge, then nobody can
turn you off...no matter whatthey say.Barbara McClintock
Learning is finding out what
we already know. Doing is
demonstrating that you know
it. Teaching is reminding others
that they know just as well asyou. You are all learners, doers
and teachers.
Richard Bach
Why does life keep teaching me
lessons I have no desire to learn?Ashleigh Brilliant
May those whose holy task it is,To guide impulsive youth, Failnot to cherish in their souls Areverence for truth; For teachingswhich the lips impart Must havetheir source within the heart...Charlotte Forten Grimke

7-6: A MAN WATCHES HIS IDEALS
TAKING A CONCRETE FORM BEFORE
HIS INNER VISION
Commentary: ‘A Man Watches His Ideals Taking a Concrete FormBefore His Inner Vision’. This person has had the knowledge orinsight to know what he wants, or what he wishes to accomplish,and it is now materializing in front of him—it is ‘Taking a ConcreteForm Before His Inner Vision’. As the ‘Vision’ unfolds, so do thethings that he’s wanted. He will see, realize and understand
that dreaming of and working on future possibilities often doesindeed, in time, bring them into current realities.
Oracle: This is a good time to visualize your needs, wants,thoughts and feelings. In the situation facing you, what are the
‘Ideals’ that need to be made real? Something that we're learningin this new and exciting age of human progress is that consciousconcrete manifestation is entirely possible, especially when we
feel aligned to our core purpose. When you decide what it is that
you truly want, allowing the energy of it to be focused throughthe power of the mind will allow it to manifest. Here, something
new is being formed, even if it is only in its preliminary stage or
early days. If these ‘Ideals’ are really meant to be brought into‘Concrete Form’, focusing intently on them will bring them intoreality. By doing this, you will make it possible for your creativeideas to be projected out into the real world. However, one mustbe truly thoughtful about what one wants to create. You may
find that your hopes and dreams are not only brought into the
light of reality, but are truly being put to the test. Be careful what
you wish for. The mind is very powerful, and, if your focus isnot used correctly, difficult situations can emerge. Concentratecarefully on what it is that you want and 'Watch' what happens.Think positively as this Symbol can create wonderful magic inyour life.
Keywords: Vivid confrontations with one’s objectives. Creativevisualizations. Imagining things. Meditations and affirmations.
Ideas crystallized. Putting things out into the universe. Makingthings happen. Seeing things take shape and form. Clairvoyance.Film making. Writing and getting published. The power ofmanifestation. Solidification. Builders. Sculptures. Dreams.
The Caution: Being dissatisfied with what was thought to be thetrue ideal. Feeling that things are “written in stone” and can’t bechanged. Calcified situations or emotions. Neurosis. Focusing onthe negative thereby bringing the negative.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 6
When an idea exclusivelyoccupies the mind, it istransformed into an actual
physical or mental state.
Sivananda
The pure impulse of dynamiccreation is formless; and beingformless, the creation it givesrise to can assume any and
every form.Kabbalah
The desire accomplished issweet to the soul.The Bible
Determine that the thing canand shall be done, and then weshall find the way.Abraham Lincoln
Plant the seed of desire in your
mind and it forms a nucleus
with power to attract to itselfeverything needed for itsfulfillment.
Robert Collier
Speak of the devil and heappears.Arabic Proverb
It would not be better if thingshappened to men just as theywish.
Heraclitus
Nature is a revelation of god; art
ia a revelation of man.
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

7-7: A WOMAN FEEDING CHICKENS
AND PROTECTING THEM FROM THE
HAWKS
Commentary: ‘A Woman Feeding Chickens and Protecting Them
From the Hawks’ is an image of maternal care and having a sharpeye to watch that everyone who needs ‘Protection’ is protected.The ‘Hawks’ are predators, and ‘Chickens’ can be like sittingducks, to be picked off. The ‘Woman’ is responsible for the wellbeing of the ‘Chickens’ and has to ensure their safety. With'Hawks' around, she could find it difficult to relax. There is theperception that one’s guard can’t be let down without someone,or some thing, taking advantage.
Oracle: There is a need to look after those in your care, whetherthey are people, things or ideas. If you put yourself in the
position of being the caretaker, you must take responsibilityfor their care, nurturing and well being, together with othernecessary tasks. The ‘Woman’, who has become the ‘Chickens’carer, has not only to ‘Feed’ them, but ‘Protect’ them from anydangers. There are possibly dangers that no one else seems tobe taking seriously.Making sure that safeguards are in place andworking well will ensure that things don’t go wrong. However,those in a position of care need to recognize the fine linebetween protection and overprotection. There is always moreto responsibility than meets the eye. Over-sheltering can lead to
alienation from the carer. A statement often associated with thisis “I only did it to protect you”. This can apply in another sense;it can indicate keeping people in the dark and not letting themknow what’s really going on—’for their own good”. This Symbolcan show taking responsibility for things that are not normally
yours. Any efforts directed towards protecting and nourishing
will be rewarded in the future.
Keywords: Nurturance, protection and guardianship. Being onthe lookout for changes in the atmosphere. Spotting problemsthat nobody else notices. Shielding innocents from “bad-guys”.Motherhood and the stress of it. Predators. Being firm withoutsiders. Asylum. Places of residence
The Caution: Overprotection. Unable to cope with everydayproblems. Taking over with the pretence of the need forprotection. Not allowing others to grow up. Always being onthe lookout for problems. Neurotic worrying about what may
happen. Seeing the world as a big, scary place. Being picked on.Taking advantage of the innocent. Protection money. Attackingothers.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 7
I gave my beauty and my youthto men.I am going to give mywisdom and experience to
animals.Brigitte Bardot
You are quite correct in sayingthat I banned the export ofmonkeys on a humanitarianbasis and not because thenumber was lessening. I believe in preventing crueltyto all living beings in any form.Morarji Desai
The best protection anywoman can have...is courage.Elizabeth Cady Stanton
The raven sees its chicks as
falcons.
Turkish Proverb
I think people are frustrated inthis society, where predatorsprey upon normal, law-abidingcitizens, and you never seejustice in the courtroom. In my
films, the predators don’t getaway with it.
Steven Seagal
Woman must not depend uponthe protection of man, but mustbe taught to protect herself.
Susan B. Anthony
The mere apprehension of acoming evil has put many into asituation of the utmost danger.Marcus Annaeus Lucan

7-8: A BLAZING FIREPLACE IN A
DESERTED HOME
Commentary: ‘A Blazing Fireplace in a Deserted Home’ gives animpression of warmth, security and love. The ‘Blazing Fireplace’conjures up images of coziness and comfort, and can provide afeeling of being surrounded by the secure and good things in life.Even when no one is there to provide the warmth, there can be
feelings of positive energy, containment and safety.
Oracle: Even in times of real loneliness, when you are separatedfrom everyone or everything, there is a constant, sometimesunseen, sustaining energy ready to welcome you ‘Home’;whether it be the ‘Fire’ of your own spiritual center, the warmth
and familiarity of family and kin, or the certainty that one issustained by humanity at large. The ‘Home’ may be ‘Deserted’ byhaving no parent, or no one living there, someone moving out orby having no furniture or few of the usual comforts. Everybody
should have a place of refuge and safety and sometimes we haveto be reminded that the warmth of the “flame” is always there
for us, and that we just need to acknowledge it and accept it. A
‘Home’ can be a symbol of love—even when it is left behind or‘Deserted’ it can remain warm and ready for your return. Thiscan be the love within family, marriage, or close friends. Thislove should never really diminish or lose its warmth. Also, a‘Home’ can radiate warmth and protection by its very nature.Something simple like turning on the lights can make a homewarm, comfortable and inviting to others. Placing a candle inthe window or turning on a light in the hall can work wonders,lifting your spirits and inviting love in.
Keywords: Security and comfort left behind. A fire left blazinginside to reassure. Wood for burning. Gas, electricity connections.Holiday homes, or homes that are rarely visited. Homes filledwith love, if not people or possessions. The warmth of the heart.Holding a candle for someone who’s gone. Fertility issues. Heartand hearth. Fireplaces. The place to which one returns.
The Caution: A sense of isolation, separation, abandonment, andbitterness. Sabotage by, or of, loved ones and family. Being forced
out of the home, possibly for social reasons. Desertion and decayof love. Never being at home because of work concerns andcommitments. Separation. Divorce. Latch-key children. Feelingalone and out in the cold. The light being on, but no one at home.
Lack of domestic supplies.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 8
Home is where there’s one tolove us.Charles Swain
East, west, home’s best.Traditional Proverb
... And the still deeper secretof the secret: The land thatis nowhere, thatis the true
home...Chang Po-tuan
Since the house is on fire let uswarm ourselves.
Italian Proverb
One may have a blazing hearthin one’s soul and yet no oneever come to sit by it. Passersby
see only a wisp of smoke fromthe chimney and continue onthe way.Vincent Van Gogh
When I can no longer bear tothink of the victims of brokenhomes,I begin to think of thevictims of intact ones.Peter De Vries
Figure it out. Work a lifetime topay off a house. You finally own
it and there’s no one to live in it.
Arthur Miller
Men resemble great deserted
palaces: the owner occupies
only a few rooms and hasclosed-off wings where he never
ventures.Francois Mauriac

7-9: THREE OLD MASTERS HANGING
IN A SPECIAL ROOM IN AN ART
GALLERY— SOMETIMES THEY SEEM
TO SPEAK TO EACH OTHER
Commentary: ‘Three Old Masters’ are ‘Hanging in a Special Roomin an Art Gallery’. Being ‘Masters’, they are very valuable, especially
as they are ‘In a Special Room’. The paintings are timeless, and canbe so lifelike that ‘Sometimes They Seem to Speak to Each Other’.Time often doesn’t seem to exist in this realm. ‘Rooms’ that are
empty, except for art works on the walls, can feel like somethingis going on at another level. Even when there’s nobody actuallythere, it can seem as though conversations are being held. Theeyes of the paintings can appear to be watching what goes onaround them. It can even feel like the eyes actually follow youaround the room.
Oracle: Communication here is at a completely different level
than is normally experienced. It can be unspoken, and includesubtle messages that are enduring and valuable. Going deeply
into understanding truths about art, our cultural inheritance and
its significance can bring about realizations and revelations thatexpand one’s mind and life. This Symbol can picture speaking toothers about abstract concepts on a higher level. Everyday chatter
that doesn’t go deep or explore life’s beauties can become mindlessand mundane. Go deeper into your situation. Find solutions asdifferent parts of your personality and psyche give you clues or
tell you what you should be doing or where you should be. Focusduring quiet times, times of introspection when people aren'taround to distract. The solution may rest in balancing the three
agencies: spiritual, physical and mental.
Keywords: Truth in the image. Intuitive vision. Reverence forart, form and tradition. Images bringing messages. Art collectionsand collecting art. Photographs. Capturing life in a work of art.Furniture of a period. The art of placement. Beautiful images.
Wisdom speaking. Crowded galleries or empty rooms. Imagesthat speak volumes. The Sabian Symbols as images. Minds thatdon’t shut down. Animations.
The Caution: Undue reliance on conservative values. Too muchimportance placed on appearance instead of substance. Snobberycaused by elevated feelings of importance. Art’s rarefied atmospherethat excludes others as unworthy or uneducated. Serious faces.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 9
One picture is worth athousand words.
Proverb
Nature is a revelation of God;
Art a revelation of man.Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
Art is the lie that makes us
realize the truth.Pablo Picasso
Fine art is that in which the hand, the head, and the heart ofman go together.John Ruskin
Art is unquestionably one of the
purest and highest elements in
human happiness. It trains themind through the eye, and the
eye through the mind.As the °sun colors flowers, so does art
color life.John Lubbock
Art has no enemy but ignorance.
Romanian Proverb
A painting ina museumprobably hears more foolishremarks than anything else inthe world.
Edmond Jules Goncour
The creative act is not performedby the artist alone; the spectator
brings the work in contact withthe external world by decipheringand interpreting its inner
qualifications and thus adds hiscontribution to the creative act.Marcel Duchamp

7-10: A CANOE IS APPROACHING SAFETY
THROUGH DANGEROUS WATERS
Commentary: ‘A Canoe is Approaching Safety’ implies a timeof calm and reassurance ahead. It is coming to ‘Safety ThroughDangerous Waters’. The way ahead is showing itself and there isan assurance that one is reaching their destination after a difficultor even life-threatening time. The person in the ‘Canoe’ hasprobably been through a hair-raising or rough experience, havingto shoot the rapids and having to be very adaptable to changing conditions.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, your ‘Canoe is Approaching
Safety’, however, it is not quite there yet, and it may be that the
hard times are not completely through. You are, most likely, not
quite where you'd like to be. You may be experiencing ‘DangerousWaters’, but there is a guarantee of safety and “smooth sailing” inthe near future. Things are moving into a new state of equilibrium.Although there is relief in sight, be sure not to switch off your
attention to the difficulties or dangers that you are still experiencing.The last battles can be the ones that beat you. Even if you are the
type who thrives on the thrill of danger, it’s important to respectthe times of calm to reflect on the lessons that have come from
the recent dangers or difficulties. The difficulties in your situationare likely to have been quite arduous, and yet valuable in terms ofyour resistance against difficult times to come. Neglecting to takeadvantage of the placid waters (the ‘Safety’ that is promised) is a
waste of a valuable opportunity and may lead to being unpreparedif the ‘Dangerous Waters’ come again. The coming calm is anopportunity to review what has passed, and prepare for whatever
is yet to come. Before long you'll realize that you’ve come through
difficult straits and the worst of it is over.
Keywords: The calm after the storm. Navigating difficult straits andcoming out okay. White water rafting. Skydiving and other riskyactivities. Rough waters vs. plain sailing. Recovery. Remission. Lightat the end of the tunnel. Personal initiations. Trials of test and defeat.Being stoic. Retaining dignity and graciousness. Exercising careand restraint. Avoiding over exaggerated enthusiasm. Deliveranceon many levels. Salvation. Staying on track.
The Caution: Neglecting to take a time to rest. Taking foolhardyrisks, believing that all will be okay. Pre-empting situations without
completing things in the present. Thinking that “lightning neverstrikes in the same place twice”. Shooting more rapids. Freezing
up and not moving.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 10
God promises a safe landing but not a calm passage.Bulgarian Proverb
The winds and waves arealways on the side of the ablestnavigators.
Edward Gibbon
Isaid here’ the river! want to flow
on, here’s the direction I want to
go,and put my boat in.I was readyfor the river to take unexpectedturns and present obstacles.Nancy Woodhull
The man who is swimming against the stream knows thestrength of it.Woodrow Wilson
In this world there is alwaysdanger for those who are afraidof it.George Bernard Shaw
Do the thing you fear mostand the death of fear is certain.
Mark Twain
I am driven into a desperate straitand cannot steer a middle course.Philip Massinger
Call on God, but row away from
the rocks.
Indian Proverb
can’t change the direction of thewind, but! can adjust my sails to
always reach my destination.Jimmy Dean

7-11: A PROFESSOR PEERING OVER HIS
GLASSES AT HIS STUDENTS
Commentary: A ‘Professor’ is ‘Peering Over His Glasses at HisStudents’. His eyes have been strained over the years from doingclose-up work with books and papers and now he needs ‘Glasses’for reading and studying. The rational mind requires a differentkind of “lens” to that of the emotion or intuition. When the‘Professor’ moves his gaze or attention to ‘His Students’, he needsto use a different focus. He ‘Peers Over His Glasses’ to look at them
and to see them as they truly are. If he observes them through thesame intellectual “lenses” he uses for his study, he may neglect tosee them as individuals with their own abilities and needs, andtheir human attributes will get lost in the process.
Oracle: You may need to interrupt your rational, linear, skeptical
concentration to realize that people, together with your intuitiveideas, are all around you, and they are valuable assets of your life and
development. Are you, or is someone else, really looking at thingswith the right ‘Glasses’? Do you have “old eyes” or “new eyes” tosee? Is there a projection of something, a thought or an attitude,onto others in this situation that isn’t really appropriate or doesn’treally belong to them? Someone is, or needs to, notice what’s goingon, or take a minute to observe people in their true light. There maybe a need to remember that being “clever” or “intellectual” doesnot mean that someone is better or above everyone else. Although,of course, being in a position of some kind of authority can lend
weight when there’s a need for giving kindly advice. There maybe an issue of telling people what to do and how they should act.
Are you the ‘Professor’ or are you a ‘Student’? Regardless of which
one you are, keeping in mind that people are to be viewed kindly,
seriously, and with respect, will help.
Keywords: Lenses of perception. Seeing that others get themessage. Intellectual snobbery. Photography. Lenses as shields orbarriers between people or things. Observing others. Examiningone’s self. Understanding where you’re looking. Giving advice.Teachers. Professors. The ability to “read others”. Motivations or
talents of others seen and appreciated.
The Caution: Assuming a superior position. Thinking others have alesser position or intelligence. Reading endless self-help books andnot noticing real life. Bossing others. Not seeing, or caring to notice,one’s own faults and limitations. Feeling separate from what’sbeing said or taught. Distortions of perception or observation.
Condescending behavior. Seeing people as interruptions.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 11
We must look at the lensthrough which we see theworld, as well as the world
we see, and understand thatthe lens itself shapes how we
interpret the world.Stephen Covey
The mind is for seeing, the heartis for hearing.Saudi Arabian Proverb
Every closed eye is not sleeping,and every open eye is not
seeing.
Anon
Question and answer is notacivilized form of conversation.
Patrick O'Brian
A cynic is aman who looks at
the world with a monocle in hismind’s eye.Carolyn Weils
The task of the educator lies in
seeing that the child does not
confound good with immobility
and evil with activity.Maria Montessori
I had some eyeglasses.I was walking down the street whensuddenly the prescription ranout.Stephen Wright
A suppressed resolve will betray
itself in the eyes.
George Eliot

7-12: MINERS ARE EMERGING FROM A
DEEP COAL MINE
Commentary: ‘Miners Are Emerging From a Deep Coal Mine’.They’ve been working hard, and now the siren has sounded and
their shift is finished. Coming back to the surface, they can take a
deep breath and feel themselves infused with fresh energy. Even
if the Sun is going down at the end of the day, it and fresh air canbring a new awareness and wonder at being alive. The ‘Miners’ arefree for now and finished with the day’s work.
Oracle: It may feel as though you’ve been operating in the dark,or in some kind of underworld. When we’ve been submerged inwork, deep issues or spaces for a long time, we often end up feeling
suppressed and worn-out. Thoughts and emotions can be clouded
with doubt and fear making them difficult to plumb or discover.
You may even feel like you have been in some kind of hell; perhaps
you've had to go into the depths in the search for something. Afeeling of breathlessness can erupt from not being able to understandwhat’s happening. Take a deep breath and learn to relax! Delvingdeeply can bring messages from the subconscious that reveal somesurprising things. However, it is often not enough to merely find the
message; there’s also a need to bring any realizations into the clearlight of day so that you, and others, can benefit from this passage andlearn to breathe more freely. Imagine coming back to the surface,
taking a deep breath and feeling yourself infused with the energyof fresh air and sunshine. Look carefully at situations, for it maytake time for your eyes to adjust to the new light. Even if you needto go back within, into the ‘Deep Coal Mine’ in the near future,having faith and the acceptance of being able to operate and see in
“the dark” will assist you with any problems you may encounter. Ifyou are ‘Emerging’ with others, this can lead to a ‘Deep’ sense of
camaraderie, as people realize that they’ve been through the samestraights and have come out okay.
Keywords: Release from arduous labor. Stopping work. Coming
into the light. Deep subconscious healing. Hypnotherapy. Goinginto dark places. Claustrophobia. Memories from the past or out ofnowhere. Things dark and “gothic”. Lung and breathing problems.
Persephone emerging. The labyrinth of the mind. The mind flooding.
Tunnel vision. Caves. Mines. Digging for answers. Relief and timeoff. Ghost stories. Being the "canary" in the mine. Work.
The Caution: Gloomy outlooks. Not seeing potentials. Emergingwith a “blackened face”. Difficulty breathing. Earning a living beinga life and death situation. Working hard for small rewards. Emotionalloops. Things hard to escape. Fear of confinement or capture.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 12
The depth of darkness to which you can descend and still live isan exact measure of the heightto which you can aspire to reach.Laurens Van der Post
To me every hour of light anddark is a miracle. Every cubicinch of space is a miracle.Walt Whitman
For many children, joy comes asthe result of mining somethingunique and wondrous aboutthemselves from some inner
shaft.Thomas J. Cottle
Underground issues from
one relationship or contextinvariably fuel our fires inanother.Harriet Lerner
In isolation | ruthlessly plow
the deep silences, seeking myopportunities like a minerseeking veins of treasures. Inwhat shallow glimmering spaceshall |find what glimmeringglory?Jamaica Kincaid
Beauty is also to be found inaday’s work,Mamie Sypert Burns
Free men freely work: whoeverfears god, fears to sit at ease.
Elizabeth Barrett Browning

7-13: CHILDREN BLOWING SOAP BUBBLES
Commentary: ‘Children Blowing Soap Bubbles’ is a wonderfulimage of playfulness and fun. The ‘Children’ are having fun‘Blowing Soap Bubbles’, they love to watch how big they canmake them, how long they can last and how high they can go.The swirling colors of the ‘Soap’ along with the fact that they can
pop at any moment add to the fun and the fascination.
Oracle: It is through fantasy, simplicity and imagination that you
will find the best solution. Saying things for the sake of sayingthem, doing things for the sake of doing them, or doing thingswith no real thought of the outcome is fun, and perhaps what’sneeded to lighten things up—as long as nobody is offended, ledastray or hurt in the process. This is not a time to be too deepand meaningful, for it will be in fleeting moments of pleasurablewonder that you will find the answer to what’s needed. However,this can also show someone not being “real”, not taking thingsseriously and not wanting to take the responsibility for anyoutcomes. Perhaps there’s a feeling that the things that are beingsaid aren’t substantial—more like mere cartoon captions. Fantasycan intrude on reality and what’s being said can sometimes beforgotten in a minute. It’s almost like these issues didn’t everexist. Sometimes, however, something said in a fleeting moment, a
mere throwaway line, can have a positive or permanent effect onothers. Whilst there is likely to be fun and joy, there may need to
be consideration of whether it will produce anything substantial,permanent or real. If this situation is one of short-term rewardsand enjoyment, it may be wonderful, but relying on anything longlasting may be unrealistic and disappointing. Whatever, enjoy themoment and the display of fun while it lasts.
Keywords: Spending time being creative with children. Drama.Being carefree or superficial. Finding joy in pure abstractions.Captions in cartoons. Pollyanna attitudes that can lead to funor nowhere. Not caring about the future, only the moment.Rediscovering the simple joys of life. Toys and playing. Soap andbubbles. Comic book heroes. Being easily amused. Fun. Playingwith friends.
The Caution: Never growing up. Frivolousness. Daydreaming.Resenting people who don’t have serious work. Upset over theloss of things that don’t have lasting substance. Not meaning
what’s said. Making light of the serious. Moving on withoutcompleting anything of lasting value. Dislike of chitchat.Gullibility. Impractical behavior. Not knowing when to stop talking.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 13
Man is most nearly himselfwhen he achieves theseriousness of a child at play.Heraclitus
It’s fun being a kid.Arthur Angier
But childhood prolonged,
cannot remain a fairyland. It
becomes a hell.Louise Bogan
One of the most obvious factsabout grownups to a child is
that they have forgotten what
it is like to be a child.
Randall Jarrell
Every child is an artist. Theproblem is to remain an artist
once he grows up.Pablo Picasso
Always tell the truth. That way,
you don’t have to remember
what you said.Mark Twain
Where there is joy there is
creation. Where there is no joythere is no creation: know thenature of joy.Upanishads
It isn’t the great big pleasuresthat count the most; it’s making
a great deal out of the littleones.Jean Webster

7-14: IN THE HEAT OF THE NOON, A MAN
TAKES A SIESTA
Commentary: ‘In the Heat of the Noon, a Man Takes a Siesta’
points to the need to take some time off, even when one is inthe middle of accomplishing some task or doing work. The ‘Man’
knows that if he takes an hour or two off during the middle of
the day, taking ‘A Siesta’, when he gets back to work he will have
a clearer mind and more strength to get through what needs tobe done.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, relaxing and recuperatingwill serve to give you greater reserves of strength to completethe tasks at hand. Sometimes we just have to stop and refresh
our batteries - this is probably just such a time. Also, it’s goodto guard against working one’s self into a lather and gettingexhausted. This can have long term effects and mistakes areeasily made through tiredness, stress or boredom with the job
or chore. A nap, a change of atmosphere or taking some timeout can lead to new solutions about work and how to get thingsdone. By the same token, you may need to ignore judgments from
others who think that they know what you should be doing, howoften and when. On the other hand, this Symbol can point to
somebody taking time off when they should actually be gettingthings completed. A ‘Siesta’ should not translate into neglectingyour duties—if something needs completing, a ‘Siesta’ may notbe appropriate or possible. Take a break and think about thesituation, as long as it is appropriate. When you get back on thejob your renewed energy will help you get through everything.You may find the solution you’ve been searching so hard for justpops into your mind.
Keywords: Meditation. The need to take time out. Sleep apnea and
other sleep disorders. Midday rushes. Recuperating or laziness.
Hammocks. Long lunch hours. Rejuvenation. Knowing when tocall a halt. Taking breaks. Looking after one’s health. Tiredness
and yawning. Hot and demanding days leading to inertia orexhaustion. Dreams and fantasies,
The Caution: Wasting time. Being disinterested in things. Losingenergy or interest when one should be at the peak of activity orachievement. Refusing to take a break. Going past the bounds of
what should be done. Working so hard that one is forced to stopthrough exhaustion or ill-health. Always being on the go whileothers sit back and enjoy. Losing one's grip on reality. Unwinding
after toil or trouble. Withdrawal.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 14
One should rest when it is time to
rest and act when it is time to act.Anon
Did you sleep well? No,I madeacouple of mistakes.
Steven Wright
Wasting time is an importantpart of living.Anon
Sometimes the most urgent andvital thing you can possibly do istake a complete rest.Ashleigh Brilliant
Take a rest; a field that has restedgives a beautiful crop.Ovid
In Japan, employees
occasionally work themselves todeath. It’s called Karoshi.I don’twant that to happen to anybodyin my department. The trick isto take a break as soon as yousee a bright light and hear deadrelatives beckon.Scott Adams
I like work: it fascinates me. |can sit and look at it for hours.I _love to keep it by me: the idea of
getting rid of it nearly breaks myheart.Jerome K. Jerome
Follow effective action withquiet reflection. From the quietreflection will come even more
effective action.James Levin

7-15: CIRCULAR PATHS
Commentary: ‘Circular Paths’ symbolize a situation where thereis a continual coming round back to the same place. It can picturea pattern of going round and round, with no real outcome and nosense of a final destination. In some instances, this can be good,as it can be rather meditative but it can also prove to be a very
real waste of time.
Oracle: You may feel as though you are back where you started,
like you’ve been through this whole thing before. However, it’s
best to consolidate, remember and appreciate the experience and
learn what you have gained on your way to where you are now.
When you are returning to what appears to be where you started,
you always have some level of new experience and new skills.
Sometimes life seems to be a continuously repetitive journeyand there can be the need to break the chains that bind you. Itcan feel like a karmic wheel. This theme of ‘Circular Paths’ maybe experienced in school, at work or at home where routinescan become boring, repetitive and never-ending. Indeed, it canfeel like there’s no possibility of escape. But every experienceis an opportunity and every opportunity is an experience—nomatter how many times it has been done before. That is, unlessyoure really losing ground or time is slipping away to completesomething. Procrastination can be like treading water or beingstuck on these ‘Circular Paths’. Do you keep telling yourselfthat you're going to stop one day? Take heart and realize thateverything is always in motion and there’s the possibility ofstepping off this treadmill when the time is right. If you take the
trouble to look at the real details of your experience rather thanjust experiencing dull repetition, something new and inspiringcan always be found.
Keywords: Going round and round. The orbits of the planets.Cosmic rhythms and cycles. The cycles of life. Things we feel we
can trust. The secure path that never really leads anywhere. Cropcircles. Realizing mistakes and learning from them. The wheelsof progress. Merry-go-rounds. Circular machinery. Mazes and
labyrinths. Chaos theory. Learning through repetition. Lookingfor somewhere to park.
The Caution: Being lost in abstractions or small details. Losingperspective from going round and round. Addictive cycles that
are hard to get rid of. Boredom. Episodes that repeat themselves.Repeating the same actions or mistakes. Treadmills. Habits thatare self-defeating.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 15
History is simply one damnedthing after another.Winston Churchill
The air is full of our cries. Buthabit is a great deadener.Samuel Beckett
Dangers bring fears, and fears
more dangers bring.Richard Baxter
We are what we repeatedly do.Excellence, then, is not an act,
but a habit.
Aristotle
Search for meaning, eat,sleep. Search for meaning, eat,sleep. Die, search for meaning,search for meaning, search formeaning.Doug Horton
When in danger or in doubt,
run in circles, scream and shout.
Bumper Sticker
The great thing in the world isnot so much where we stand,
as in what direction we are
moving.
Oliver Wendell Holmes
As people are walking all thetime, in the same spot, a pathappears.Lu Xun
Men have become the tools of
their tools.Henry David Thoreau

7-16: AFTER THE STORMS OF WINTER, A
BOAT LANDING STANDS IN NEED OF
RECONSTRUCTION
Commentary: ‘After the Storms of Winter, a Boat Landing Stands inNeed of Reconstruction’. A ‘Storm’ has swept through and damaged,or ruined, some usually secure part of life. The ‘Boats’ cannotdock at the ‘Boat Landing’ if it is destroyed or shaky or insecure.Situations, possessions and people may be compromised, or evenruined. Our foundations can be rocked almost to the point of
complete destruction. Now there’s the need for ‘Reconstruction’.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, there needs to be a plan putinto action to get things repaired so that life can move on. Evensituations built on solid foundations can quickly be swept away
by the tidal forces of emotion or life’s circumstances. ‘After the
Storms of Winter’ implies that there is a need to take stock of
what’s happened. Rebuilding and restructuring is timely and
probably very necessary. When there is “nowhere to dock” yourlife or emotions, it can take time to recover your feet and get thingsback under control. You may have to ‘Reconstruct’ some usually
secure part of your life, but in the future you'll be wiser and you'llbuild something stronger. Rebuilding some area of your life willrequire patience, commitment, faith and a sense of security andpurpose. Sometimes, through facing devastation, we can trulycome to grips with our own power. Without positive attitudes,and a reinforced attitude, the ‘Reconstruction’ may, at best, beshaky or temporary. You may ask whether ‘The Storms of Winter’have really finished and warmer conditions can be expected or
trusted. Picking yourself up and rebuilding after some harrowingor dangerous collision with reality can lead to a better, stronger
and safer sense of where you can feel safe and harbored.
Keywords: Temporary loss. Emotional repair. Tools to repairdamage and build a new life. Having faith that the worst is overand recovery can begin. Calling in the experts. Taking time toput the pieces back together. Working to ensure the safety of the
community. Insurance claims. The fragility of man’s world in theface of nature. Returning to work.
The Caution: Making excuses instead of fixing things. Feelingemotionally swamped and powerless. Being torn apart. Leavingthings a mess. Feeling shot to pieces. Letting things wear downto the point of collapse. Having nowhere to dock. Arguments andviolence.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 16
Character builds slowly, butit can be torn down withincredible swiftness.Faith Baldwin
Each man’s task is his lifepreserver.George B. Emerson
It takes a real storm in theaverage person's life to makehim realize how much worrying
he has done over the squalls.
Heartland Advisor
Alot of people ask me if! were
shipwrecked, and could onlyhave one book, what would it be?I always say ‘How to Build a Boat’Steven Wright
What is the appropriate
behavior fora man ora womanin the midst of this world,where each person is clinging
to his piece of debris? What'sthe proper salutation between
people as they pass each other
in this flood?
Leonard Cohen
linhabit a weak, frail, decayed
tenement battered by the windsand broken in on by the storms,and, from all! can learn, the
landlord does not intend torepair.John Quincy Adams
Be an optimist—at least until
they start moving animals inpairs to Cape Kennedy.
Anon

7-17: A RETIRED SEA CAPTAIN WATCHES
SHIPS ENTERING AND LEAVING THE
HARBOR
Commentary: ‘A Retired Sea Captain Watches Ships Entering andLeaving the Harbor’ pictures an image of calmness, quiet and an
inner knowledge that’s come from years and years of going “out
to sea”. The ‘Sea Captain’ has taken on the elements again and
again and has survived some very dangerous situations. As he isnow ‘Retired’, it is a time for the type of quiet recollection and
reflection that is usually only afforded to someone who has “beenthere, done that”. His part for now is to observe life and its trials
rather than participating directly in them.
Oracle: You may feel that the stormy, unpredictable emotional life
is something you can leave behind. In your situation, like the ‘Sea
Captain’, however, there will always be frustration experiencedin the desire to return to the arena where the action is. Rightnow an objective and calm understanding of life’s experiencesis the true goal, along with rest, relaxation and nourishing thebody and spirit. However, there’s a need to be wary of merely
looking out at the world from a confined perspective and feelinglike you've got no choice but to sit, observe and reflect. It is quitepossible that there are still a lot of new experiences out there
for you. This may be about some measure of “retirement”, but it
is certainly not likely to be the end of life. This time could be aninterim period, with time spent contemplating your next move.Reflecting on the past shouldn’t dominate your possibilities,opportunities or desires for new experiences. Rather, this is atime to sit and contemplate and to make plans for what is yet tocome. A whole new arena of activity is quite likely to open upafter a period of recharging your batteries.
Keywords: Memories and peaceful contemplation. Disconnectionfrom the past. Concentrating on more immediate circumstances.Fatigue and the need for rest. Being a spectator rather than a
participant. Being part of an audience. Voyeurism. Turning todomestic pursuits. Writing one’s memoirs. Nostalgia. Safe portsor harbors. Retiring from public life.
The Caution: A cop-out, escaping from reality. Relying on pastexperiences. A need to defend one’s shoreline. Losing faith
in life. Staring at lost opportunities and times gone by. Notwanting to contributing any more. Losing interest in the struggle.Disillusionment. Frustration. Boredom.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 17
Too often man handles life ashe does the bad weather; Hewhiles away the time as hewaits for it to stop.Alfred Polgar
Be not simply good; be good forsomething.
Henry David Thoreau
I must go down to the seasagain, to the lonely sea and the
sky. And alll want is a tall ship,And astar to steer her by.John Masefield
A ship in the harbor is safe, but
that is not what ships are built for.Proverb
There is no pleasure in having
nothing to do. The fun is in havinglots to do and not doing it.
Mary Little
Give wind and tide a chance tochange.Richard E. Byrd
The stately ship is seen no more,The fragile skiff attains the shore;And while the great and wisedecay, And all their trophies passaway, Some sudden thought,
some careless rhyme, Still floatsabove the wrecks of Time.William Edward Hartpole
Lecky
What is this life if full of care, we
have no time to stand and stare?William Henry James

7-18: TWO MEN PLACED UNDER ARREST
GIVE AN ACCOUNTING FORTHEIR ACTS
BEFORE THE TRIBUNAL OF SOCIETY
Commentary: ‘Two Men’ are ‘Placed Under Arrest’. They have to ‘Give
an Accounting For Their Acts Before the Tribunal of Society’. They are
standing before some representative or authority and speaking abouthow they have acted against the rules and codes of ‘Society’. The factthat they are ‘Placed Under Arrest’ doesn’t have to mean that they are
literally taken away by the police. It can be that they are held back by
circumstances, people or experiences and they feel stuck, unable to
move or stripped of their freedom. This can be rather compromisingto one’s integrity, ideals and strength of character.
Oracle: People’s ideas or actions may be under criticism or
examination, to the point of feeling that someone has offendedsocial responsibility and acceptability. They may have to justify orexplain themselves, and relationships can be held in limbo until allthe facts come to light. There may be a need to be thoughtful aboutthe situation, because there may be nothing but suspicion at this
point. The “case” could well be dismissed, with people forgiven
or let off the hook, but with suspicion in the air, what permanentdamage has already been done? Often a sense of trust and belief in
the goodness of people is necessary. An attitude of forgiveness may
be really important to move through this situation with one’s sense
of pride intact. Being charged with an offense can drive people apart,with each trying to save their own neck. How long can someone
be “handcuffed”, either to themselves or to another? Imagining theremoval of “the cuffs” could lead to a turn around in the situation.
People in positions of power, physical or emotional, should showmercy so others can also forgive and forget and get on with theirlives. Ultimately, the goal must lead to freedom.
Keywords: Having to plead one’s case. The need for “legal help”.
Unacceptable principles. Blowing the whistle. Pointing at othersto get off charges. People unable to relate. The “Romeo and Juliet”
story. Feeling caught out. Restrictions. Karma to be worked out.Being framed. Circumstances out of control. People in handcuffs.Identification parades. Police. The law. Lawyers. Judges. Juries.Tribunals. Police states. Breaking laws.
The Caution: Refusing to conform. Sabotage of relationship values.Feeling stuck, unable to move. Staying in relationships when oneshould go. Deadening emotions. Shutting off to cope. Not having one’spoint of view heard. Losing one’s authority. Being bound karmically.Being tied up and limited.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 18
To accuse others for one’smisfortunes is a sign of wantof education. To accuse oneself
shows that one’s educationhas begun.To accuse neitheroneself nor others shows one’seducation is complete.
Epictetus
Many promising reconciliations
have broken down because, while
both parties came preparedto forgive, neither party cameprepared to be forgiven.Charles Williams
Most of us can forgive and forget;
we just don’t want the otherperson to forget that we forgave.Ivern Ball
We have only one person to
blame, and that’s each other.
Barry Beck—New York Ranger,
on who started a brawl
No! No! Sentence first—verdictafterwards.Lewis Carroll
Crime expands according to
our willingness to put up with it.Barry Farber
Little thieves are hanged, butgreat ones escape.Proverb
I haven't committed a crime.What! did was fail to complywith the law.
David Dinkins—Former NewYork City Mayor

7-19: A GANG OF ROBBERS IN HIDING
Commentary: A ‘Gang of Robbers in Hiding’ is an image ofpeople, possibly hidden in the shadows, waiting to take advantageof someone or something. The ‘Robbers’ are watching and waitingfor the appropriate time to come out into the light of day, or itjust might feel as though they are.
Oracle: In your situation, you may feel that you have beenwronged or something has been taken from you. At the moment,however, because the ‘Robbers are In Hiding’ there is probablylittle or no way of finding out who or what is the cause. Check if
you are exposing yourself to being taken advantage of or attacked
in some way. Be careful not to get confused between reality
and paranoia. You could spend your time searching for the real
perpetrators, however a better solution may be to get on withyour life, whilst being mindful that something could go awry.Perhaps an “authority” of some kind needs to come into play, tosort things through, to ensure future safety and get life back ontrack. This person can be an external party who’s in charge andpowerful in some way, or it can be your own sense of authority
that needs to sort out the facts of what’s really going on. Whateverhappens in this situation, things will most probably come to light
at a later time. This Symbol can point to delusions of someone’sthought processes. Make sure that there is no underminingoffaith in others by indulging in suspicions that are ungrounded in
reality. Locking out life can lead to feelings of being a prisoneror result in alienation from others. Sometimes one has to “break
a window” to allow the light to get in. The solution may lie in
taking control of your emotional, mental and physical realities.
If you merely react in a vulnerable and defenseless way, what isthere to deter the ‘Robbers’ from taking advantage of you?
Keywords: Gaining unfair advantage. Robbers and thieves.Spying. The cold war. Big business ripping off the “little guy”.
People appearing to be something that they are not. Con-men
mentality. Holding up proceedings. Mental attitudes that sabotage,restrict or control. The need for light. Voyeurism. Gangs. Privatedetectives. Ambushes.
The Caution: Gaining unfair advantage at someone else’s
expense. Finding it hard to trust anything. Difficult hidden energy
that may erupt into consciousness. Feeling that someone is goingto “get” you. Hiding in the shadows. Locks and shutters thatprevent true relationship. Unbalanced mental states. Paranoia.Distrusting life.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 19
The robbed that smiles steals
something from the thief.
William Shakespeare
In this world there is alwaysdanger for those who are afraidof it.George Bernard Shaw
You admit it—I admit I’m
being persecuted.— Yeah? By
whom?—By them!—But, who
specifically is “them’?—Every
one of them! —Every one ofwho?!—Every one of whodo you think!—I haven't any
idea!—Then how do you know
they aren't?Joseph Heller—Catch 22
The man who trusts men willmake fewer mistakes than hewho distrusts them.
Camillo di Cavour
Our doubts are our traitors.William Shakespeare
Don't hold to anger, hurt orpain. They steal your energyand keep you from love.
Leo Buscaglia
All stealing is comparative. If
you come to absolutes, praywho does not steal?Ralph Waldo Emerson
If you steal from one author,it’s plagiarism; ifyou steal frommany, it’s research.Wilson Mizner

7-20: A JEWISH RABBI IN A TINY ROOM
FULL OF MANUSCRIPTS AND
BOOKS, PERFORMING HIS DUTY
Commentary: ‘A Jewish Rabbi in a Tiny Room Full of Manuscriptsand Books’ shows a man of religion in a constant state of learning,
interpreting and reinterpreting text. His job is to translate spiritualteachings and administer them on behalf of the community thathe represents. The fact that the Old Testament, the Talmud, andother religious writings have changing relevance in differentcultures signifies that we need to be aware of our establishedwisdom, but remain open-minded to the way we apply that
wisdom to your modern day-to-day life. In order to have freedomof thought, the ‘Rabbi’ needs to have a thorough knowledge ofthe history of the foundations of the society he represents.
Oracle: There is age old wisdom and established tradition which
has survived to this day. These teachings can give rise to ritualsand initiations that are essential to our well-being at importantlandmarks in our lives such as births, weddings, funerals, etc.However, how relevant are some of the laws that pertain tothese in today’s world? Although they should be delivered andaccepted with reverence, taking things literally from ancient
texts is probably not always going to provide you with what isneeded for modern solutions. Instead, take heed of the ethicsand morals behind them, and translate them to become relevantto your life and times. You may need to access this knowledgethough instruction or through an inner search in order to dealwith your situation. Sometimes we feel a huge resistance tohaving to do things that we must perform, but if these are triedand true things, then they can lead us onwards and upwards bycomplying with society’s needs and mores. Remind yourself of
why there is a need to ‘Perform’ these ‘Duties’. This may help to
keep you motivated when you're feeling doubtful.
Keywords: Connection with ancient sources of truth andunderstanding. Faith in abiding laws. Inherited wisdom. Ancientbooks. Fundamentalism. Rituals, social and otherwise. Initiation
ceremonies. Book work. Studying and worshipping. Doing deedson behalf of the community. Religious services. Writings thatreveal rules for living. Lawyers. Advocates. Hidden knowledge.
The Caution: Religious dogmatism. Following the rules of “thebook”. Sticking to what convention says. Losing one’s sense ofindividuality. Over-inflated sense of self. Distrust or hate ofdifferent religions, backgrounds or ethnic origins. Restrictiverules.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 20
I felt there’s a wealth in Jewishtradition, a great inheritance. I'dbe ajerk not to take advantage
of it.Herman Wouk
Rituals are important. Nowadaysit’s hip not to be married. I'm notinterested in being hip.John Lennon
I call that mind free whichjealously guards its intellectual
rights and powers, which callsno man master, which does notcontent itself with a passive orhereditary faith, and receivesnew truth as an angel from
Heaven.Woody Allen
Look for the good, not the evil, inthe conduct of members of thefamily.Jewish Proverb
All sorts of spiritual gifts come
through privations, if they areaccepted.Janet Erskine Stuart
Any ritual isan opportunity fortransformation.
Starhawk
Impart as much as you can ofyour spiritual being to those who
are on the road with you, andaccept as something preciouswhat comes back to you fromthem.
Albert Schweitzer

7-21: A CROWD UPON A BEACH
Commentary: ‘A Crowd Upon a Beach’ pictures people comingtogether to enjoy the fresh air, the sunshine and the water. Theyleave behind the worries of their everyday lives as they take timeout to enjoy the freedom and the freshness of the environment.Some will be swimming, some building castles in the sand,
whilst others may be talking or reading or soaking up the sun
and the ocean breeze. There can be a feeling of being blessed orlucky, as many people would like to be able to take this time out
to enjoy the elements without worrying about money, work or
responsibilities. People often stop and talk to each other, whether
they have met before or not. Chance meetings with friends canbe great fun, as can making new friends.
Oracle: You may feel a need to get back in touch with youremotions by relaxing and taking things easy. Joining with others
of like mind, in a natural setting and feeling the release that cancome from reminding yourself of the joys and wonders of naturecan be like taking a holiday. People love the feeling of the sun,the ocean air and the sand between their toes. Whether they areon the ‘Beach’, or not, this Symbol implies that people can relaxtogether, even if they don’t know each other, and revive theirspirits through taking time off. The feelings of guilt or worry aboutbeing “at work”, or doing what one should be doing, shouldn’tbeentertained as this is a time for leisure, whether this is alone oramongst others. Is there a problem in revealing your body andbeing seen in a swimming costume or some other scant clothing?These issues really need to be dropped as most people really aren’tconcerned with how others look in this environment. There isquite possibly a need to get back in touch with your emotions
and to join with others for some light recreation.
Keywords: Simple gatherings and sharing in natural values.Watching people swim, run, skip and play. People getting loose
and revealing their bodies. Remembering the basic elementsof life. Marveling at nature. Getting back to the basics of life.Enjoyment. Relaxing social constraints. Picnic hampers, towels,sunblock. Wanting a tan. Queues and lines. Swimming in the
collective unconsciousness. Leisure times.
The Caution: Avoiding close interaction with others. Being justone of many who desire their moment in the sun. Drowning -with
others or alone. Sunburn. Sunstroke. Feeling like just one of the
many. Dehydration. Traffic that hampers flow. Loneliness.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 21
Nobody goes there anymore. It’stoo crowded.
Yogi Berra
In every out thrust headland, inevery curving beach, in everygrain of sand there is a story of
the earth.Rachel Carson
Miami Beach is where neongoes to die.Lenny Bruce
The sea does not reward thosewho are too anxious, too
greedy, or too impatient. Oneshould lie empty, open, choiceless as a beach—waiting foragift from the sea.Anne Morrow Lindbergh
A crowd is not company, and
faces are but a gallery ofpictures.Francis Bacon
The lives of happy people aredense with their own doings
— crowded, active, thick....But
the sorrowing are nomads,ona plain with few landmarks
and no boundaries; sorrow’shorizons are vague and its
demands are few.Larry McMurtry
Among them, but not of them.
Lord Byron

7-22: A CHILD GIVING BIRDS A DRINK ATA
FOUNTAIN
Commentary: ‘A Child’ is seen ‘Giving Birds a Drink at a Fountain’.The ‘Child’ is carefree and enjoying the freshness of the outdoorsand the thrill of watching the ‘Birds’ having and enjoying the‘Drink at the Fountain’. The interaction of the ‘Child’ and the‘Birds’ can bring joy and wonder. ‘Birds’ represent spiritualmessages, the ‘Child’ is the physical presence of innocence,
naivety and fun, and the water represents the flow and empathy
of emotional energy. This also symbolizes the joy and trust ofinnocence as it is a ‘Child’ that holds the ‘Fountain’ open for the‘Birds’. This does not mean that an adult is unable to be trusted.Instead, it shows that we must maintain the innocence andopenness of a ‘Child’ in order to be connected to and aware of,simple, momentary and more spiritual energies.
Oracle: ‘Children’ demonstrate a generosity of spirit and takedelight in giving to beings less able than themselves. Theygive freely and unconditionally. This Symbol shows that wemust assume the shaping and caring of a ‘Child’ in order to beconnected to and aware of, the needs and worries of others.The problem that can come out of adulthood is the expectationof return, the “what’s in it for me” routine. It is when anexperience is its own true reward that we achieve opennessand joy in responding to the energies that surround us everyday.
Someone's needs, hopes and wishes are in need of sustenance or
refreshment. Whether this is you or someone else, simple gesturescan revitalize situations beyond your expectations. If you, oranother, have the resources to nourish or to help someone orsomething, the effort required will be minimal, but the rewardsmay be well worth it. Show some unconditional generosity andenjoy the resulting experience.
Keywords: Enjoyment experienced in nourishing simple souls.
The need for water. Simple pleasures. Innocence. Birdbaths.Fountains. Water. Innocent reaching out to others. Taking
time out for others. Spontaneous gifts. Moments of innocence,spontaneity and fun. Putting aside your own needs. Stopping tohelp others in need. Enjoying interactions with people, birds oranimals.
The Caution: Looking for recognition for small deeds. Being
condescending to others. Always feeling like you have to lookafter others, whether they are big or small. Interfering withnature. Being naive. Feeling that one is the font of everything.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 22
To cultivate kindness is avaluable part of the business
of life.Johnson
A child is a quicksilver fountain
Spilling over with tomorrowsand tomorrows And thatiswhy
She is richer than you and I.Tom Bradley
Love and kindness are never
wasted. They always make adifference. They bless the onewho receives them, and theybless you, the giver.Barbara De Angelis
Practice random acts of
kindness.Modern Saying
Constant kindness canaccomplish much.As the sunmakes ice melt, kindness causesmisunderstanding, mistrust,and hostility to evaporate.Albert Schweitzer
He who sows courtesy reapsfriendship, and he who plants
kindness gathers love.
Saint Basil
Life is made up, not of greatsacrifices or duties, but of little
things, in which smiles andkindness, and small obligations
win and preserve the heart.
Humphrey Davy

7-23: CHANTICLEER’S VOICE
HERALDS THE RISING SUN WITH
ENTHUSIASTIC TONES
Commentary: ‘Chanticleer’s Voice Heralds the Rising Sun WithEnthusiastic Tones’. The word ‘Chanticleer’ is from the French“Chanter Clair” meaning to sing clearly. He ‘Heralds the RisingSun With Enthusiastic Tones’. As this ‘Chanticleer’ is quite clearly
the symbol of a rooster, it’s most likely he sings loudly, as well. It
is also said that the cock crows loudly in order to scare away evil
spirits. The cock was dedicated to Apollo in ancient mythologybecause he gives notice of ‘The Rising Sun’. Just like the cock,some people are heralds of the new day or the new age, and theynotice and give voice to this emergence, often ahead of time.Most often the 'Voice' that is heard is enthusiastically received,
but there are times that what is said is rejected, ignored or reviled
or it’s perceived as loud and irritating.
Oracle: In this situation, someone may feel that they are the
driving force behind what’s happening. There may be a strong
need, or desire, to draw attention to themself. This may besomeone in the public eye, or someone who feels that theyshould be listened to, or that things cannot continue withoutthem. Rightly or wrongly, there’s often a claiming of responsibilityfor things. There is always a need to learn to listen, rather thanjust crowing about one’s self, one’s ideas, or life. The sound ofsomeone’s voice can become grating and annoying when theydon’t know when, or how, to stop. It can be that the ‘ChanticleerWith Enthusiastic Tones’ overstates his role somewhat and
there can be a blurring of the concept as to whether the cock
causes or simply heralds the new day. Done correctly, however,‘Enthusiastic Tones Heralding the Rising Sun’ can be wonderfully
stirring and can move people to new beginnings and realizationsthat they’ve not had before.
Keywords: Anticipating new opportunities. Waking early. Being amorning person. Having a clear, beautiful or loud voice. Speakingup when it’s needed. Heralding the new age. Seeing things ahead
of their time. Being attuned to cosmic forces. Change or renewal.
Always being on the go. Being eternally vigilant. Alarms thatspur to action.
The Caution: Overstating ones role, talents or abilities. Needinga wake-up call (literally and symbolically). Crowing aboutthings—disturbing others. Being noisy when others are tryingto sleep. Being loud and irritating.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 23
Faith is the bird that feels the
light when the dawn is still dark.Rabindranath Tagore
Said a Rooster, “I'd have you allknow lam nearly the whole ofthe show; Why, the Sun every
morn Gets up with the dawn,For the purpose of hearing me
crow!"Ethel Watts Mumford
Dawn does not come twice toawaken aman.
Saudi Arabian Proverb
Great braggers, little doers.Romanian Proverb
One filled with joy preacheswithout preaching.Mother Teresa
It takes a person who is wide
awake to make his dream cometrue.Roger Babson
The sun sets without thyassistance.The Talmud
She understood how muchlouder a cock can crow in itsown farmyard than elsewhere.
Anthony Trollope
Noise proves nothing. Oftena hen who has merely laid an
egg cackles as if she had laid anasteroid.
Mark Twain

7-24: A THIRD WING ON THE LEFT SIDE OF
A BUTTERFLY
Commentary: ‘A Third Wing on the Left Side of a Butterfly’ isan image of imbalance and distortion combined with beauty andgrace. A butterfly with three wings would be a beautiful thing tosee. However, having a ‘Third Wing’ may look lovely, but it wouldmake it very difficult to fly. Whilst we may marvel at such an oddity,
it would prove to be very difficult for the ‘Butterfly’ itself. It may
look curiously beautiful, but in reality it can be difficult surviving
in the physical world with such a difficulty or handicap. In French,“gauche” literally means “left”, and it has the extended meanings“awkward” and “clumsy”. In fact, “awkward” itself comes from theMiddle English “awke”, meaning “turned the wrong way” or “left-handed”. On the other hand, “adroit” and “dexterity” have theirroots in words meaning “right” or “on the right side”. We see thisfragility in creative people like Van Gogh, Robin Williams or SpikeMilligan.
Oracle: Understanding and accepting fragility and differences inothers can give us greater empathy for those that have difficulty
operating efficiently in this world. Emotional breakdowns, fears and
phobias can be symptoms of being too sensitive, not necessarily asa fault, but as a response to an unforgiving and tough world. Whenthe transformation into full potential occurs it is a wonderful thingbut you may feel that you are unnaturally developed in the emotive,intuitive realms. Instinct may be swamping logic, and whilst this canbe very creative, it would be a good idea to try to regain some balance.
This can point to threesomes of any kind and just as threesomesare considered to be an unbalanced relationship, ‘A Third Wing’can imply imbalance and an inability to get anywhere. A ‘Butterfly’can be someone who is bright when conditions are favorable, butis “done for” when the clouds gather. This Symbol can also indicatelop-sidedness on the physical level, such as having one side of the
body imbalanced in some way. Balance is difficult to achieve withthis Symbol, but is something that needs to be strived for.
Keywords: Creative overbalance. Bodily impairments andhandicaps. Being light, flippant and fluttering from thing to thing.Over-sensitivities. Oddities. Beautiful imperfections. Idiot savants.Imbalances. One side of the body being more perfect than the other.Wings, arms, legs, feet.
The Caution: Unrealistic reliance on being different. Obsession withstrange things. Feeling useless and out of place. Flapping around andnot getting anywhere. Restlessness and nervousness. Lopsidedness.Impatience.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 24
I'd give my right arm to beambidextrousYogi Berra
Handicaps are really to be usedanother way to benefit yourself
and others.Stevie Wonder
I thank God for my handicaps,for through them, I have found
myself, my work and my God.Helen Keller
Everything in moderation.Proverb
You can have too much ofagood thing.Proverb
Too much of a good thing is
wonderful.Mae West

7-25: THE SIGHT OF AN AUTUMN LEAF
BRINGS TO A PILGRIM THE SUDDEN
REVELATION OF THE MYSTERY OF
LIFE AND DEATH
Commentary: ‘The Sight of an Autumn Leaf Brings to a Pilgrim theSudden Revelation of the Mystery of Life and Death’ is an image ofhaving the ability to see much more in the simple things than mostpeople ever notice. A ‘Pilgrim’ is a traveler, a voyager—someone
who's on a journey. Often the ‘Pilgrim’s’ journey is a spiritual trekor a trip to increase the level of experience and understanding. The‘Sudden Revelation of the Mystery of Life and Death’ shows that the
person on the journey is able to look at the smallest and sometimesmost fleeting things and find layers and layers of meaning that otherswouldn't.
Oracle: This Symbol can indicate an insight into something that canchange the course of one’s life. The ‘Autumn Leaf’ in this Symbolbrings to the ‘Pilgrim’ the 'Sudden' understanding of the cycle of life,death and rebirth. The ‘Mystery of Life’ seems to unfold before the‘Pilgrim’s’ inner vision. The ‘Pilgrim’ can see that the seed has growninto a tree and the tree’s leaves have now fallen with the change ofthe seasons, ready for the new birth in the spring. The ‘Autumn Leaf?becomes the composted material that nourishes the new seeds andfosters and nourishes new growth. Often we go through our lives
without noticing the information that can be gained from lookingat small or seemingly insignificant things. The ‘Revelation’ that is
experienced can change one’s life, if time is taken to stop long enoughto really look into it. At this point, you may feel that you've learntmuch but have grown tired of seeking information for life’s meaningthrough more conventional channels. Look for the answer to yourproblem in simple, everyday moments. They are fleeting, but they arearound you. Look for the signs, they can have profound effects.
Keywords: Seasonal adjustments. Fleeting inspiration. Seeing thingsin their own time. Spiritual revelations. Conversations with God.
Feeling blessed. The beauty and timelessness of nature. Contactswith nature spirits. Angelic visions. Photography and having aphotographic mind. Being here now. Pilgrims and their journeys.
The Hadj pilgrimage. Solving problems. Quick and deep minds.Snapshots in time.
The Caution: Focusing on things that have no lasting value or are nolonger relevant. Looking for answers in everything, therefore missingout on the big picture that’s right in front of you. Making a big dealout of insignificant or everyday occurrences.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 25
To see the world in a grain of sand,And a heaven in a wild flower;Hold infinity in the palm of yourhand, And eternity in an hour.William Blake
A traveler without observation isa bird without wings.Moslih Eddin Saadi
Perpetual inspiration is asnecessary to the life of goodness,holiness and happinessas perpetual respiration isnecessary to anima life.Andrew Bonar Law
To see a hillside white with
dogwood bloom is to know aparticular ecstasy of beauty, but
to walk the gray winter woods
and find the buds which willresurrect that beauty in another
May is to partake of continuity.Hal Borland
Aman should hear a little music,
read alittle poetry,and seeafine picture every day of hislife,in order that worldly caresmay not obliterate the sense
of the beautiful which God hasimplanted in the human soul.
Goethe
Nature will bear the closest
inspection. She invites us to lay
our eye level with her smallest
leaf. and take an insect view ofits plain.Henry David Thoreau

7-26: AN EAGLE AND A LARGE WHITE
DOVE TURNING CONSTANTLY INTO
EACH OTHER
Commentary: The image of ‘An Eagle and a Large White Dove’
are represented in many facets of our lives. Their symbols can befound in several religions, most notably Christianity, heraldry and
hermeticsm. They represent opposite sides of the same spectrum.The ‘Eagle’ is symbolic of strength, stamina and skyward flight. Itis a bird of prey and can be seen as aggressive and domineering.It is also considered to be the king of the birds. The 'Dove' is asymbol of peace, tenderness, innocence and gentleness. When
they are ‘Turning Constantly Into Each Other’ we are able toembody a strong sense of grounding in one’s own power and at
the same time being aware of and awake to love and the wonderfulmessages that come from the emotional and spiritual realms.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, there is most likely a need tomix, and integrate, the principle of the will with the principle ofthe emotions. This symbolizes having the will and the strength
to love and to do so with energetic conviction. It is the ideals
of being strong, but not aggressive; firm without being overlyassertive, and confident without being oppressive that createsa sense of peace. Equally, it is a sense of peace and love thatcan energize your convictions into action. However, there maybe some confusion around whether to use force or love inthis situation. This Symbol may also indicate that somebody’sbehavior is unpredictable and sometimes off-putting. Someone
may be rather schizoid and flounder around from one responseto another, leading others to wonder what sort of response they
are likely to receive at any given time. This could be as a resultof a chemical imbalance, the use of drugs or alcohol, or merelytheir personality. Using moderation and the alternation of these
responses will probably lead to a solution—being firm and yet
kind.
Keywords: Tempering one’s will with love and bolstering up
one’s emotional responses with strength. Cooperation of mind,will, spirit and heart. Schizophrenia. Eagles and doves. Beingstrong and soft at the same time. Adopting the attitudes of spirit,power and love.
The Caution: Being “all over the place” with reactions. Beingchangeable. Not acting for the purpose of a definite outcome.Confusing others with conflicting behavior. Not knowing whatto expect next. On one minute—off the next.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 26
For hatred does not cease byhatred at any time: hatred
ceases by love—this is an old
rule.The Dhammapada
Censure pardons the ravens butrebukes the doves.Latin Proverb
We must combine thetoughness of the serpent withthe softness of the dove, atough mind and a tender heart.
Martin Luther King, Jr.
We are going to have peaceeven if we have to fight for it.Dwight D. Eisenhower
“Oh, wise one!” said the eagle,
while he sank, In deeper andever deep‘ning thought—"Oh
Wisdom! like a dove thouspeakest!”
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
The eagle suffers little birds to
sing, and is not careful what theymean thereby.
William Shakespeare
Shall eagles not be eagles?
Wrens be wrens?Lord Alfred Tennyson
The real and lasting victoriesare those of peace, and not war.Ralph Waldo Emerson

7-27: AN AIRPLANE SAILS HIGH IN THE
BRIGHT CLEAR SKY
Commentary: ‘An Airplane Sails High in the Bright Clear Sky’ isan image of flight and escape and gives the feeling of unfetteredfreedom. It can symbolize being carefree and not bound to
the everyday, grounded realities that most people are caughtup in. Being in the ‘Airplane’ can bring a sense of being aboveeverything, an observer and somewhat detached. We all needmoments of clear, focused detachment and the enjoyment oflife’s pleasures.
Oracle: There may be some people in this situation that needto be recognized, embraced or noticed in some way. Maybe it isyou that has to do this, or to receive it. You, or another, may feelthat they are somehow “above” or beyond the situation, but howlong can one go on flying so high? Somebody in this situation isprobably avoiding the reality of what’s going on, or they may beavoiding having close, intimate interactions with people aroundthem. How long can there continue to be ‘Bright Clear Sky’? We
all need to come down to earth after some incredible or gravity
defying experience, even if we don’t want to—or don’t feel
ready to. For now, there may be the feeling that you are above
the situation and are being carried beyond this time or place tosomething completely new. There is probably a need for calm
objective observation. ‘Sailing’ above difficulties, and people,
may bring new information to light; things that you weren’table to “see”, or know, previously. For the moment, ‘Sailing’ on
and enjoying both the experience and the view may be what’sneeded. However, sooner or later you're going to have to landback in reality. Are you prepared not only for the flight but alsofor the landing? What are the real down-to-earth needs that arebeing shown and that need attention?
Keywords: Transcending difficulties or escape from reality.Optimism that knows no bounds. A bird’s eye view of things.Detachment. Objectivity. Chemical influences. Freedom fromlife’s routine. Pilots and planes. Clear air turbulence. Roller coasterrides. Awareness of up and down, left and right, in and out. Senseof destination. Decreasing gravity. Acceleration of time. Fisheye
lens. The need for navigation.
The Caution: Difficulty in seeing the true details of what’s goingon. Escape from reality. Running out of fuel. Egoism. Playing with
gravity. Disconnection from the everyday world.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 27
Flying might not be all plain
sailing, but the fun of it is worththe price.Amelia Ehrhart
Words have no wings but theycan fly many thousands of
miles,
Korean Proverb
There are no signposts in thesky to show a man has passed
that way before. There are nochannels marked. The flierbreaks each second into new
uncharted seas.
Anne Morrow Lindbergh
The airplane stays up because
it doesn’t have the time to fall.Orville Wright
Twinkle, twinkle, little bat! How I wonder what you're at! Upabove the world you fly! Like atea tray in the sky.Lewis Carroll
Faith without works is like a
bird without wings; though shemay hop with her companionson earth, yet she will never fly
with them to heaven.
Francis Beaumont
lf there were any justice in
this world, people wouldoccasionally be permitted to flyover pigeons.Gene Brown

7-28: A MAN ALONE IN DEEP GLOOM.
UNNOTICED, ANGELS ARE COMING
TO HIS AID
Commentary: ‘A Man Alone in Deep Gloom’, is an image ofsomeone who’s feeling very depressed, alone and somehowforsaken. As he’s in ‘Deep Gloom’, it seems that he’s hit rockbottom and wonders if things can ever or will ever improve. Hemay have just about given up hope when ‘Unnoticed, Angels AreComing to His Aid’.
Oracle: This Symbol is very much about letting go and trusting.Just when someone needs rescue and salvation the most, itwill often appear as if from out of nowhere. So often ‘Gloom’is brought about by depression, not knowing what is going tohappen, or assuming that something bad is about to happen. It
may be that ‘Gloom’ is disabling any ability to see one's ‘Angels’ oraccept any support that is being offered. It is not always necessary
to ‘Notice’ your ‘Angels’, but this Symbol is asking you to open
up the them and to allow them to help in some way. Whetherthe ‘Man’, and this could be you or another, realizes it or not,things are somehow going to improve. This Symbol shows thatit’s been a difficult time, but it is just beginning to dawn on you
that you are being “helped” as the ‘Angels Come’ to ‘Aid’ in someway. There will be a slow, but sure, realization that things aregetting better. Ifyou continue to see the ‘Gloom’ and wallow, youwill put up a subconscious, or conscious, resistance to help andmay continue on a downward spiral. Look at the big picture andevaluate just how serious the situation is. If it can be mended, letit mend. Don’t get stuck in misery. The ‘Angels’ that come to helpcan be people, but it can also be your higher mind that bringsthis ‘Aid’. Hope, faith and trust will help to move this situationon. Work on changing your attitude to your situation and watch
the “light” returning.
Keywords: Feelings of not being alone. Awareness of spiritualhelp in times of need. Salvation versus depression. Feeling likeone’s luck is about to change. Improvements in the pipeline.Changes in the “weather”. Helpers arriving just when they’reneeded. Brightening influences. Angels and spiritual forces forgood. Guardian angels.
The Caution: Unrealistic reliance on spiritual agencies or helpfrom others. Feeling like no one cares or that no one is listening.Being alone and forgotten. Losing faith in things getting better.Refusing help. Misery and gloom and doom.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 28
We can easily forgive a child
who is afraid of the dark; thereal tragedy of life is when menare afraid of the light.Plato
Confront the dark parts of
yourself, and work to banish
them with illumination and
forgiveness. Your willingness to
wrestle with your demons willcause your angels to sing. Usethe pain as fuel, as a reminderof your strength.August Wilson
As soon as your consciousnessis right, God is there. He is not
hiding from you, you are hiding
from Him.
Paramahamsa Yogananda
In times like these, it helps torecall that there have ALWAYSbeen times like these.Paul Harvey
If there is no God, who pops up
the next Kleenex?Art Hoppe
Make friends with the angels,
who though invisible arealways with you... Often invokethem, constantly praise them,and make good use of their
help and assistance in all your
temporal and spiritual affairs.
Saint Francois de Sales

7-29: MANKIND'S VAST ENDURING
EFFORT FOR KNOWLEDGE
TRANSFERABLE FROM GENERATION
TO GENERATION
Commentary: ‘Mankind’s Vast Enduring Effort For KnowledgeTransferable From Generation to Generation’ shows the handingdown of learning or ‘Knowledge' from mothers and fathers todaughters and sons. By instruction, by observation and by acceptance,
we pass information to the next ‘Generation’, as this allows for theprocess to continue and develop from ‘Generation to Generation’.
Oracle: This Symbol is about conscious awareness and how we use
this capacity to know and to ‘Transfer’ information from our mindto another mind through communication. This communication canbe in the spoken word, the written word or through dance, bodylanguage or through our deeds. We pass on the biological nature
of ‘Knowledge’ through our genes, our conscious ‘Knowledge’ byteaching, our social ‘Knowledge’ by example and training. Geneticmemory is another way that things can be passed down from‘Generation to Generation’. It can be said that the ‘Knowledge’ of theuniverse is within us, but bringing this out into our consciousness is
something that occurs over time and through effort. The most likely“students” are those that are constantly around us, can relate to our
activities and are inspired by our history and love—this often beingour friends and family. However, students, as well as teachers, canpop up anywhere, especially when there’s a need for the information
to be ‘Transferred’. With this Symbol, there can be an outreachingto others through awareness along with a desire to teach, as wellas to learn. There is more to wisdom than just knowing. In the end,it’s what is done with this ‘Knowledge’ that creates wisdom. It isthrough knowledge and understanding that we can bridge the gapbetween ourselves and others.
Keywords: Interpreting and conveying beliefs and ideas. Thedesire to pass on something to others. Handing down possessionsor knowledge. Knowledge being changed, modified or updated.Teaching by example. The wisdom of the ancestors. Research
into history. Striving for answers. Books and the spoken word.
Encyclopedias and reference books. The gift of knowledge.
The Caution: A belief that one knows it all. Information, knowledgeor riches inherited by only the select few. Reliance on tradition.Fundamentalism. Doing what’s always been done, regardless ofwhy.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Libra 29
Children wish fathers looked
but with their eyes; fathers that
children with their judgment
looked; and either may be wrong.William Shakespeare
Employ your time in improving
yourself by other men’s writings
so that you shall come easily by
what others have labored hardfor.Socrates
That must be wonderful; |haveno idea of what it means.Jean-Baptiste Moliere
Education is the transmission ofcivilization. Ariel Durant
Today's children are required tolearn what most people in former
times were forbidden to know.Ashleigh Brilliant
We are the people our parentswarned us about.Anon
By the time a man realizes that
maybe his father was right, heusually has a son who thinkshe’s wrong.Charles Wadsworth
Ideas cross mountains, borders,and seas. They go anywhere amancan go...The Houston Times
To be ignorant of whatoccurred before you were bornis to remain always a child.Marcus T. Cicero

7-30: THREE MOUNDS OF KNOWLEDGE
ON A PHILOSOPHER’S HEAD
Commentary: ‘Three Mounds of Knowledge on a Philosopher’sHead’ brings to mind the science of phrenology, which is the
study of the psychological implications of the bumps and
irregularities on the surface of the skull. This Symbol is alsoabout the signs that are evident in our physical being which reflect
our inner wisdom. We can often identify people who are learnedby merely looking at the way they present themselves, throughtheir demeanor. Wisdom can also be reflected in the clarity of theeyes, a peaceful nature, and calmness in the event of difficulty.
The face may have signs of wisdom in the lack of stress lines, orthe strength of thought lines. A face may show the experienceof life and the wisdom derived from it. Essentially, if we look, itis possible to see those who are wise and understand life.
Oracle: There is an ability here to read spiritual understandings
into concrete, everyday objects. Several different aspects can be
combined to result in a truly wise outcome. There’s the ability tobe able to pierce through appearances to see the inherent truthof a situation and bring abstract truths into reality. It can showconcentration on questions of a philosophical nature. There maybe the need to be cautious, however, of always “living in one’shead”. Constant thinking and talking about philosophical ideasor intellectualism can cause a strain in relationships when thepartner may want to concentrate on simpler, more emotionalor everyday thoughts. After all, as Voltaire said "Four thousandvolumes of metaphysics will not teach us what the soul is."
Keywords: Looking at the signs. Wisdom that transcends book
knowledge. Philosophy. Having a knowledgeable demeanor.
Being an impressive figure. Making wise decisions regardlessof hard-line opinion. The head, skull or cranium. Knowledgedirected to intellectual or spiritual goals. Predicting the future.An appearance that shows obvious intelligence. Wit. Style. Seeingpotential in others. Receding hairlines.
The Caution: Analyzing things too much and reliance on intellect.Being a “know-it-all”. Having a bossy attitude. Thinking thatdoesn’t clarify issues but muddies them. Taking things far tooseriously. People with "highbrow" attitudes. Feeling weighed
down by intellectual concerns.
Libra 30
And still they gazed, and still thewonder grew, that one small
head could carry all he knew.Oliver Goldsmith
What if everything is an illusionand nothing exists? In that case,|definitely overpaid for my carpet.
Woody Allen
What if nothing exists and we'reallin somebody's dream? Orwhat's worse, what if only thatfat guy in the third row exists?Woody Allen
I don’t know why we are here.
Ludwig Wittgenstein
Philosophers have merelyinterpreted the world. The point
is to change it.Karl Marx
Plato was a bore.
Friedrich Nietzsche
I have tried too in my time to bea philosopher but,I don’t know
how, cheerfulness was alwaysbreaking in.
Oliver Edwards
The point of philosophy is tostart with something so simpleas to seem not worth stating,and to end with something so
paradoxical that no one willbelieve it.Bertrand Russell

8-1: A SIGHTSEEING BUS FILLED WITH
TOURISTS
Commentary: ‘A Sight-Seeing Bus Filled With Tourists’ is an image of
people touring around, seeing the sights, taking in the atmosphereand learning about people and places that are new or foreign tothem. There can be a feeling of knowing one’s destination, having a
map or guide, but not really knowing what it is actually like. Therecan be the feeling of being an observer, but also being observed byothers yourself.
Oracle: Sometimes we find ourselves in situations where we don’tunderstand the customs or the language of those around us. Youmay need a tour guide to help you acclimatize or to make the most
of this journey. Ifyou are traveling with others, there may be a need
to be punctual at all times as others could leave without you in theireagerness for getting on with things. New friendships can be made,whilst others lost. Take in as much information as possible throughsight, sound, touch and smells, as this will enable you to learnfrom your experiences. Pictures, postcards, leaflets and souvenirs
from your journey may be useful reminders. Keep an eye on your
belongings, especially if there are people you don’t know or trustjourneying with you on the ‘Bus’. Remember that “belongings” maymanifest on every level: the physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual.This also applies to anything that proves your unique identity. Being
in an unknown place without identification can be time wasting andconfusing and can lead to a sense of alienation or abandonment. Also,trying to communicate with people who don’t understand can leadto feeling misunderstood, disconnected and shut out. None of this isnecessary, of course, as long as you’re awake and conscious. Maybe
it’s time to stop being a “spectator” in life and to become more of a
participant. Whatever is happening, enjoy the ride, learn from the
journey and take in all that is possible.
Keywords: Observing life. Feeling disconnected from reality. UFO’sand aliens. Seeing how other people live. Watching from afar. Tourists,traveling, buses. Suitcases and luggage. Cameras, pictures, souvenirs.Tour guides. Timing and being on time. The untried and untrodden
or the same old road. Getting lost in something for hours. Foreignterritories. New ways of seeing.
The Caution: Feelings of naivety and gullibility. Feeling like an alieneven in familiar surroundings. Making assumptions about others’ lives.Not fitting in. Expecting things without any personal expenditure oreffort. Getting out of one’s depth. Having difficulty calling one’s ownagenda. Separation anxiety. Inability to concentrate.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 1
Though we travel the world
over to find the beautiful, wemust carry it with us or we findit not.Ralph Waldo Emerson
If a man be gracious andcourteous to strangers, it showshe is a citizen of the world.Francis Bacon
Ifyou want to understanddemocracy, spend less time inthe library with Plato and moretime in the buses with people.
Simeon Strunsky
At six one morning, Will wentout in jeans and frayed sweater
to buy a quart of milk.A tourist
bus went by. The megaphone
was directed at him.“There’s
one,” it said. That was in the
1960s. Ever since, he’s wondered.There’s one what?Renata Adler
The more I traveled the more
I realized that fear makesstrangers of people who shouldbe friends.Shirley MacLaine
The voyage of discovery is not
in seeking new landscapes but
in having new eyes.Marcel Proust
The innocents abroad.Mark Twain

8-2: A BROKEN BOTTLE AND SPILLED
PERFUME
Commentary: ‘A Broken Bottle and Spilled Perfume’ is anemotionally evocative image. Something that was once beautiful,whole, precious and contained now lies ‘Broken’. Its contents have
‘Spilled’ in some way and it is now lost and shattered. ‘Perfume’can have a beautiful scent-it can transport our hearts and minds-or it can be rather cheap and nasty, almost giving us a headache.Regardless of how it actually smells, it can cause quite strongreactions, particularly on an emotional level. Scents can bring
up memories of people or events from the past; they can even
remind us of things that have been long forgotten. The smell of‘Perfume’ can release memories of love, longing and desire, butalso anger, hurt and jealousy.
racle: Just as ‘Perfume’ is something in a very concentratedform, you may feel that you’ve been holding in or building up
your emotions. Now something has cracked and everything has
suddenly been let out, ‘Spilled’ or wasted. There is probably littlethat can be done about the initial outburst, but now there is a needto be careful of how you handle the situation, what you say andwhat you do as you sort things out. It’s important to rememberthat sometimes things need to be ‘Broken’ so that their contentscan be released or revealed and fully appreciated. There can
be a feeling of being completely overwhelmed with emotionwhen this Symbol is around. Perhaps you actually want to ‘Spill’your thoughts and feelings, your “insides”, to let everything go,but feel stiff, unyielding and all ‘Bottled’ up or contained. Notknowing how to think or react can lead to overblown reactions.It can feel as though everything is completely lost or destroyed.Take heart, though, things can be mended - it just takes timeand clear intention.
Keywords: The memory of things lingering on. Scents or smells
that evoke reactions. The “cat let out of the bag”. The “genielet out of the bottle”. Dizziness. Passing out. Smelling salts.
Liquids spilled. Anything broken or shattered. Accidents. Theloss of something precious. Alcoholism. Biological and chemicalweapons of all kinds. Being emotionally charged. Cracking up tocrack open. The sound of breaking glass.
The Caution: Things looking good on the outside, but thecontents disappointing. Spilling one’s guts. Things eruptingsuddenly. Injured or broken necks or backs. Envy and jealousy.Broken bones. Smelly remnants.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 2
By starving emotions we
become humorless, rigid andstereotyped; by repressing
them we become literal,reformatory and holier-than-thou; encouraged, they perfume
life; discouraged, they poison it.Joseph Collins
Ifyou drink much from a bottlemarked “poison, "it is almost
certain to disagree with you,
sooner or later.
Lewis Carroll
A single event can awaken
within us a stranger totally
unknown to us.Antoine de Saint-Exupery
I looked into that empty bottleand! saw myself.
Grace Metalious
Forgiveness is the scent thatthe rose leaves on the heel that
crushes it.Anon
All the perfumes of Arabia willnot sweeten this little hand.Shakespeare
Sabean odours from the spicyshore of arabic the blest.John Milton
Each loss has its compensation
There is healing for every pain
But the bird with a broken pinion
Never soars so high agaiin.Hezekiah Butterworth

8-3: NEIGHBORS HELP IN A HOUSE
RAISING PARTY IN A SMALL VILLAGE
Commentary: ‘Neighbors Help in a House Raising Party in a SmallVillage’. They come together to help each other out and to get toknow each other better. By acting as a community, rather than asseparate individuals, small, large, or even very difficult projectscan be undertaken and completed more quickly and efficiently.People bring their individual talents and expertise with them.
The sharing of these experiences will build community values
and friendships. However, there needs to be a careful watch on
how some people contribute as unskilled labor can end up costingboth time and money.
Oracle: In this situation, great things can be achieved if everyone
works together. Any efforts directed towards giving value andstability to one’s community will be rewarded in some measure.
Friends and those close to you can help you in any endeavor,big or small. Having faith in those around you can help bringa sense of belonging and relationship to your life. Sometimes a
home or a community needs to be built or renovated in some
way, with people coming together and everyone putting in theirshare of dedication, commitment and hard labor. There can bea feeling that there is so much to do on the domestic scene thatother considerations have to be put on hold for the time being.
People must all have a higher sense of purpose, otherwise somemay work at cross-purposes, undermining people or even entirefamilies. Is there a need for people to assist you because someonein your life has left behind their responsibilities? If you are inneed of ‘Help’, making a wish for assistance to arrive may bring
a bigger response than you expected!
Keywords: Cooperation. Real estate deals. Community concerns.Buying or building houses. Renting apartments and homes.Needing help to find shelter. The agreement of neighbors tomaintain community harmony. “Raising the roof”. Parties.
Dormitories. Having to consider the needs of lots of people. Match
making. Community halls. Understanding what it takes to make
a village of people. Communal governance or being blocked byrules, laws and regulations of bureaucracy. Homeless shelters.Tools. Building expertise. Helping hands.
The Caution: Taking advantage of generosity. Refusing tocooperate in group endeavors. Building bigger and better things.Bickering over who does what. Not trusting people’s input.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 3
Light is the task where manyshare the toil.Homer
Rome wasn't built in a day.Proverb. —
Alone we can do so little;together we can do so much.Helen Keller
Build it and they will come!Fields Of Dreams Movie
Ifa house be divided againstitself, that house cannot stand.The Bible
Regard your neighbor's gainas your own gain, and yourneighbor's loss as your own loss.
Tai Shang Kan Ying P’len
The hands that help are better far than the lips that pray.Robert G. Ingersoll
Acity is a large communitywhere people are lonesome
together.Herbert Prochno
There are no passengers on Spaceship Earth. Everybody'screw.Marshall McLuhan
Imagine what a harmoniousworld it could be if every singleperson, both young and oldshared a little of what he is
good at doing.Quincy Jones

8-4: A YOUTH HOLDING A LIGHTED
CANDLE IN A DEVOTIONAL RITUAL
GAINS A SENSE OF THE GREAT
‘OTHER WORLD’
Commentary: ‘A Youth Holding a Lighted Candle in a DevotionalRitual Gains a Sense of the Great ‘Other World’. The ‘Candle’depicts the light that illuminates one’s path and consciousness,and ‘A Youth’ implies a devotee or aspirant on the path. Hegains ‘A Sense of The Great ‘Other World’ and there’s a feelingof reverence, possibly awe and ceremony. He may feel that ‘Great
Other Worlds’ are opening up to him.
Oracle: Your situation may require a fresh attitude in order tocreate room for new developments and a renewed sense of vitality.You may be feeling a sense of loneliness and alienation. Any formof light, perhaps a ‘Candle’ or a torch, needs to be shed on thedark corners of one’s mind. Try to focus on those things that bringyou a sense of love and fulfillment. A simple ceremony performedwith reverence and respect can bring wonderful results. Simple
rays of hope, such as things like a ‘Candle’ can bring, will remindyou of or give you spiritual and moral strength. Try lighting a
candle and affirming your intentions with a youthful attitude andwatch things change for the better. Indeed, you may find yourselfentering realms that you have only imagined or not truly dreamtpossible. You may be ‘Gaining a Sense of the Great 'Other World’.Proclaiming a level of devotion to a person, situation or task canreaffirm that commitment and take it to deeper levels. If you feelthat you are burdened by responsibilities in this situation, takeheart and adopt a sincere and uncomplicated attitude to what you
have to do. There’s purity of heart and motive available to you.
Keywords: Simple ideals. Ceremonies that are pure anduncomplicated. Affirming intention to the path. The light ofconsciousness. Shining a light that brings understanding of thingson the spiritual level. Spiritualist meetings. Feeling overwhelmed.
Enlightenment. Wide-eyed innocence and wonder. Sexualexperiments leading to transcendence. Potency. Devotion toritual. Expansion of psychic talents.
The Caution: Naive reliance on insincere promises. Feelinglike someone is too young to be of any worth. False feelings ofreverence and enlightenment. Placebos. Hallucinogens.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 4
Better to light a candle than tocurse the darkness.Chinese Proverb
Ifyou have knowledge, letothers light their candles in it.Margaret Fuller
Thousands of candles can be
lighted from a single candle,and the life of the candle willnot be shortened. Happinessnever decreases by being
shared.Buddha
Go within every day and find
the inner strength so that the
world will not blow your candleout.Katherine Dunham
My candle burns at both ends;It will not last the night; But, ah,
my foes, and oh, my friends— Itgives a lovely light.
Edna St. Vincent Millay
We must view young people notas empty bottles to be filled, but
as candles to be lit.
Robert H. Shaffer
How far that little candle
throws his beams! So shines agood deed in a naughty world.
William Shakespeare
Curiosity is the wick in thecandle of learning.
William A. Ward

8-5: A MASSIVE, UNCHANGING ROCKY, SHORE RESISTS THE POUDING OF THE SEA
Commentary: ‘A Massive, Unchanging Rocky Shore Resists the
Pounding of the Sea’. This Symbol shows how strong the ‘RockyShore’ is, or needs to be, to ‘Resist’ the relentless ‘Pounding of the Sea’.The ‘Rockiness’ of the ‘Shore’ is the slowly built result of millions ofstorms that have gone before. The storms have gone without much of
a trace, but the beach remains, its contours changing very slowly.
Oracle: The elements of this situation are rock-solid and any effortsto change them may take a long time and a lot of energy. With thisSymbol one can feel under assault from a larger and crueler reality,but there is a degree of strength available with which you can resist.You're possibly dealing with trying to change the face of the rockhard and established reality of life. You may find that you are underemotional assault, however you are probably strong enough to take it.How can you really make any difference in this situation, especiallyif ‘The Pounding’ has been happening for so long? Sometimes it
looks like the old and established is going to give way, but then
stubbornness or resistance sets in and nothing changes—all remains
the same. This can be good or difficult, depending on which sideof this situation you are placed. If you want to keep things as theyare, there’s a good chance that when the storm is over everything
will go back to being much the same as it was before. That’s fine, ifthat’s what you want, but if you’re trying to make changes that’s a
different and much harder story. ‘Rocks’ will only wear down afteravery long period of ‘Pounding’ and battering. However, consistentpersistence can lead to the achievement of difficult outcomes and
objectives. Perhaps love and compassion need to be employed.How long can things continue with the same energy? How longcan people endure without changing? Consider your chances forsuccess. You may be ‘Pounding’ the wrong shore. Wait for the ‘Seas’to calm and look at your true emotional motivations. How long canone keep doing this?
Keywords: Relentless, unchanging reality. The establishment.Feeling battered and bruised. The need to hold onto reality in difficultsituations. Sticking with something no matter what the cost or how
long it takes. Chinese water torture. Evolution. Endurance. Poundingwaves, rocks and sand.
The Caution: Stubborn acts leading to inertia, not growth. Tediousnegotiations. Shooting yourself in the foot. Teenage rebellion.Fighting the elements.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 5
The drops of rain make a hole inthe stone, not by violence, but by
oft falling.Lucretius
The sea complains uponathousand shores.
Alexander Smith
It struck me while I was sittinghere; everything changes butthe sea.William B. Davis
Life leaps like a geyser for those
who drill through the rock ofinertia.Alexis Carrel
When much dispute has past,
we find our tenets just the sameas last.Alexander Pope
In the confrontation between
the stream and the rock, thestream always wins—not through strength, but byperseverance.H. Jackson Brown
Constant dripping wears awaya stone.Proverb
Deep in the sea are riches
beyond compare. But ifyou seek
safety, it is on the shore.Saadi of Shiraz

8-6: A GOLD RUSH TEARS PEOPLE AWAY
FROM THEIR NATIVE SOIL
Commentary: ‘A Gold Rush Tears People Away From TheirNative Soil’. The ‘Gold Rush’ brings the temptation to chase the
promise of riches, wherever they may be. There have been many‘Gold Rushes’ throughout history, and people often gamble their
resources and their sense of security to chase the possibility ofdiscovering treasures or rewards.
Oracle: The actual promise of abundance and fulfillment fromthe ‘Gold Rush’ is only really available for a few, although this
depends very much on the ‘Gold’ that is being pursued. If the
‘Gold’ is worth the journey and the search, particularly on an
internal level, this could be a very rewarding journey that may
lead to a better life. Before you set out, you need to make sure you
have an adequate “map” of the new territory that you're exploring.The choice is often between an established, fairly stable situationand an unstable, temporary or risky situation. You may indeedstrike ‘Gold’ or you may just find yourself exhausted and a longway from home. Learning to discriminate just what is and what
is not possible will enhance your judgment of what’s worthpursuing. Feelings of excitement and hysteria can be infectiousand you can find yourself heading off towards something that’s
not all it was cracked up to be. The desire to make easy money, to
“strike it rich”, or the grab for fame can easily overtake people ifambitions get out of hand. Long term relationships may becomeunpredictable and unstable when this Symbol is around, as one, orpossibly even both of you, are likely to run off for parts unknown
just when you seem to be settling into an everyday sense of life.If you're both after the same treasure, however, this can be anincredibly exciting experience. Whatever the outcome, the trickis to enjoy the journey.
Keywords: Strong desires to move on. The longing and the searchfor the easy fulfillment of hopes and dreams. Leaving one’s nativesoil. Having a cause or mission to pursue. Leaving home, people,
family. Dropping everything to chase a project. Pilgrimages. Thesearch for riches. Immigration and migration. Listening to clues.The search for the Holy Grail. Pursuing a better life.
The Caution: Chasing the impossible dream. Losing everything.Being unrealistic or opportunistic. Not being content with whatone’s got. The grass being greener elsewhere. Lusting afterrewards that may be unreal or transitory. Risking what one hasfor what one could have. Wild goose chases.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 6
Security is not the meaning of
my life. Great opportunities areworth the risk.
Shirley Hufstedler
Gold will be slave or master.Horace
All that is gold does not glitter;not all those that wander are lost.J.R.R. Tolkien
I kept on digging the holedeeper and deeper looking forthe treasure chest until I finallylifted my head, looked up andrealized that I had dug my owngrave.Dominic—on the psychologyof a gambler
Although gold dust is precious,when it gets in your eyes itobstructs your vision.Hsi-Tang
He is rich or poor according towhat he is, not according towhat he has.
Henry Ward Beecher
Often the search proves more
profitable than the goal.
E.L. Konigsburg
Biggest profits mean gravestrisks,Chinese Proverb
That glittering hope isimmemorial and beckons manymen to their undoing.Euripides

8-7: DEEP-SEA DIVERS WITH SPECIAL
MACHINERY
Commentary: ‘Deep-Sea Divers’ are shown. They have ‘SpecialMachinery’ which enables them to plumb and explore the depths,to see what they need to see, and to accomplish what they’ve set
out to achieve. One certainly has to be brave and courageous to bea ‘Deep-Sea Diver’, with the skills to be able to survive in unknown,unfamiliar and often risky territory. With their ‘Machinery’ they have
the ability to scan, look at and investigate what’s usually not seen bymany. There has to be a strong level of trust in their own physicaland emotional abilities and that their ‘Special Machinery’ will not failthem. ‘Deep-Sea Divers’ go where others fear to tread, and to places
that others wouldn’t even dream of going. Some people may think
the risks taken are foolish or that the journey into “the depths” is a
mere fantasy or a waste of time.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, you may need to get deep belowthe surface to find out what’s really going on. It is down withinyour subconscious and intuitive wisdom that you must search forsolutions. Letting go of the intellect and allowing yourself to takea deep plunge into your inner self can reveal talents and wonders
that you may have only imagined were there. If you feel out of yourdepth, there may be a sense of having no light to see what’s goingon or no oxygen for drawing a breath. You may feel a huge pressure
from the world you have dived into. If you are feeling overwhelmedin some way, as if there’s the possibility of drowning at any moment,
imagine yourself being able to pierce through the darkness to see,and take a deep breath. You can handle the pressure as long as youare not pushing against it, or by changing your perceptions of thatpressure. A feeling of awe and wonder can sweep over you as you
realize you're in new territory, with a new awareness and so much
promise. Remember, you have ‘Special Machinery’ which can helpyou in this other world.
Keywords: Studying unconscious energies. Uncovering wonders.Breath meditations and techniques. Plunging in. Seeing things thatothers don’t. Having the special insights, talents or technology toaffect healings on deep levels. New levels of experience seen andfelt. Atlantis and Lemuria. Breathing apparatus. Getting “the bends”and cramping up. Inner space. Highly tuned senses.
The Caution: Pretending to plumb the depths, but only for show.Escapism. Going over the top emotionally. Being unreachable byshutting off to the outside world. Feeling gloomy. No light, no oxygen.Losing touch with reality or the real world. Feeling like you're in abubble. Isolation and dark thoughts. Not seeing the full picture.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio
Don't you believe that there is in
mana deep so profound as to
be hidden even to him in whomit is?St. Augustine
Which is strongest — the realityout of which the illusion iscreated, the celluloid illusion
itself, or the need for illusion?Do we hold the mirror up anddive in? And if we do, what arethe consequences?Marjorie Rosen
Throw a lucky man into the sea,and he will come up with a fish
in his mouth.
Arabian Proverb
Sponges grow in the ocean. Thisbothers me. How deep would itbe if they didn’t?
Steven Wright
Working on navy sonar systems,we knew that sound propagatesapproximately four timesfaster in water than in air.Nowhere’s an interesting image.When exploring the depths of
the seas — symbolic of soulfulemotions — acoustic images (asin hearing) arrive four times asfast. The suggestion is that withseeking out the greater depths,hearing, both audible and non-audible, happens substantiallyfaster. Perceptual abilitiesincrease several fold.Philip Sedgwick

8-8: THE SILVERY MOON SHINING
ACROSS A BEAUTIFUL GEM OFA
LAKE
Commentary: ‘The Silvery Moon Shining Across a BeautifulGem of a Lake’ is a romantic, reflective and beautiful image. Itevokes many emotional responses as we imagine the beauty of
the surrounding landscape and the stillness of the ‘Lake’. As this
is a ‘Beautiful Gem of a Lake’, its waters will be highly reflective
of the moonbeams that ‘Shine’ across it. The ‘Lake’ may convey
feelings of depth and the mysteries, or it could be so reflectiveof the Moon’s beams that it seems to look like a mirror, havingno feeling of depth at all.
Oracle: In your situation, whether there is a feeling of hiddendepths or not, there may be a strong sense of things being“reflected”. The image of the ‘Silvery Moon’ or a ‘Lake’ is very
much like that of a mirror. What is it about your situation thatmay need more “reflection”? Is there a need to really take agood, close look inside yourself or another? Or are things beingevaluated from a merely superficial level with everything beinga mere reflection of someone or something else? It may be wiseto remember that still waters run deep and things may not be
as they seem on the surface. This image can bring beauty intoyour life and the need to remember the grace of nature. It’s anopportunity to quietly reflect on the feminine aspects of yourlife and feel the gentle warmth of the Goddess.
Keywords: Reflections. Mirrors. Things mystical and alluring.The ‘Narcissus’ story. Picturesque scenes. Picture postcardimages. Peace and beauty. Halloween and magic. Escapism.Placid emotions. Peace and quiet. Contemplation and meditation.Having a reflective nature. Photographs. Psychic abilities.
Hypnotic charm or manipulation. Beaming faces. Projections
based on appearances. Beautiful landscapes. Stillness. Stairways
to heaven.
The Caution: Acting out of moodiness. Losing the plot. Projectingone’s self onto others. Narcissism. Looking at one’s self and othersas if in a mirror. Not wanting to see the whole picture. Being
superficial. A lack of depth. Seeing everything as a reflectionof one’s self. Relationships that have ideals that aren't based inreality. Lack of everything. Codependent relationships. Superficialresponses.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 8
We don't see things as they are;we see them as we are.
Anais Nin
A loving person lives ina loving
world.A hostile person lives in
a hostile world: Everyone youmeet is your mirror.Ken Keyes Jr
A lake is the landscape’s most
beautiful and expressive feature.It is earth’s eye; looking into
which the beholder measuresthe depth of his own nature.
Henry David Thoreau
There are some people who live
ina dream world, and there aresome who face reality; and thenthere are those who turn one
into the other.Douglas Everett
There is one art of which man
should be master; the art of
reflection.Samuel Coleridge
LUNARIAN, n.An inhabitant ofthe moon, as distinguished fromLunatic, one whom the moon
inhabits.
Ambrose Bierce
Beauty is eternity gazing at itselfin the mirror.Kahlil Gibran
Life is the mirror of king and
slave.Madeline Bridges

8-9: A DENTIST IS HARD AT WORK
Commentary: ‘A Dentist is Hard at Work’. His work involvesfinding out what’s wrong in a situation and fixing it up so thatthings can work smoothly and efficiently once again. Our
“chewing ability” is important as our teeth make it possible to
break down nourishment to its smaller elements or to a moredigestible consistency so that we can integrate these into ourwellbeing. He concentrates on fixing damage that has probablyoccurred over a long period of time. The “patients” that the
‘Dentist Works’ on may be nervous and restless, and lookingforward to the whole thing being finished. Although he has avery important or valuable job to do, many in society don’t fullyappreciate his ‘Work’.
Oracle: It is important to have healthy teeth as well as bodies and
minds. All these factors go into making up our wellbeing and theyneed checks, balances and maintenance work done on a regularbasis to ensure smooth functioning. It is also important for us
to take responsibility for their efficient functioning to continue.
We need to make sure that we supply our bodies and minds
with good nourishment and hygiene, not just indulge in band-aidtreatments and cover-ups. ‘Dentists’, doctors and other physicians
are needed in society in order to fix up the problems that occur
in our lives. Society needs to invent a way of repairing thesomehow inevitable but probably largely unnecessary damage.On another level, however, there are people who feel it is theirduty to continually point out where they think things need to be
“fixed”, and this can be painful in itself to endure. These peoplesometimes need to know when to back off; we should be able toassess and fix up our own mistakes. Whatever the situation, youmay need help at this time to cope with some of the difficultiesthat might arise in this period e.g. finance, health, stress etc.
Keywords: Repairing damage. Drilling at something. Pluggingup situations. Being the responsible one who always has to fix
things. Not being able to relax. Causing pain to erase pain.
Tooth decay and bad breath. Medical equipment. Therapists.Treatments. Social comment to invoke a cure. Flossing and oralcare. Attention to detail.
The Caution: Getting further into a hole by using more and moresocial solutions. Causing more pollution and damage when one
should be honoring and fixing things. The fear of pain. Making
wrong judgments and causing harm. Big dentist bills because ofneglect. Always having to come up with solutions to problems.Always being “on duty”. Nagging away at things.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 9
It is very vulgar to talk like adentist when one isn’t a dentist.It produces a false impression.Oscar Wilde
Be true to your teeth and they won't be false to you.Soupy Sales
The electric chair was inventedby a dentist!Trivia.net
For there was never yet aphilosopher that could endure
the toothache patiently.William Shakespeare
Dentist, n.:A Prestidigitator who,
putting metal in one’s mouth,
pulls coins out of one’s pockets.Ambrose Bierce
The trouble with America is thatthere are far too many wide-open spaces surrounded byteeth.
Charles Luckman
It is after you have lost yourteeth that you can afford to buysteaks.Pierre Auguste Renoir
The first thing | do in the
morning is brush my teeth and
sharpen my tongue.
Oscar Levant
The tooth fairy teaches children
that they can sell body parts formoney.David Richerby

8-10: A FELLOWSHIP SUPPER REUNITES
OLD COMRADES
Commentary: ‘A Fellowship Supper Reunites Old Comrades’.Circumstances have bought people together and they are sharing
‘Supper’ whilst reliving old memories. Getting together withpeople with shared visions or history can be very rewardingand renewing. Stories from the past come up, old friendshipsare remembered and memories are jogged. This can point toa get together or a meeting, perhaps over dinner, and findinga special bond between people that feels like it stretches way
back into history.
Oracle: In the situation facing you there is a chance to eat, drinkand be merry with ‘Old Comrades’. Reunions and gatherings ofpeople who haven’t seen each other for a long time can be veryrewarding and can remind you of cherished days long gone.Stories from each one's past can be brought up as well as sharing
present time realities. This Symbol can also indicate the feelingof having met or having known someone before, even if theyhaven't literally met each other previously. That this ‘Supper
Reunites Old Comrades’ shows there can be the sense that you’ve
somehow shared past life experiences. Feelings or realizationsof togetherness can come from “breaking bread”, drinking andsocializing with others. These feelings can be very strong andcan bring up all sorts of reactions and emotions. True friendship
and fraternity are likely to result from this meeting and bringa sweet sense of nostalgia. If there’s a situation where you feel
alienated from someone youd like to reconnect with, try sharing
a meal and see how this “breaks the ice”. There may be some oldissues that need to be worked through. Have you been avoidingsocializing with like-minded people lately?
Keywords: Renewing bonds with those you've shared struggleswith. Past life connections. Feeling like you’ve known someonefor lifetimes. Reaching out to others. Having a million and one
things to talk about. Reunions and memories. Talking about thepast. Sharing meals. Drinking wine. The Last Supper. Partaking
in the gifts of special relationships. Fated meetings.
The Caution: Only feeling comfortable with the past. Resistingjoining with others. Feeling like a loner, with no one to share
the good things in life. Being uneasy about having to face oldcomrades or adversaries. Secrets being revealed. Gossip thatbelittles others. Breaking the ice.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 10
Friendships develop over foodand wine.Prince Nicholas Romanoff
With true friends ... even waterdrunk together is sweet enough.Chinese Proverb
IfJesus Christ were to cometoday, people would not crucify
him.They would ask him todinner, and hear what he hadto say, and make fun of it.
Thomas Carlyle
Strange to see how a gooddinner and feasting reconciles
everybody.
Samuel Pepys
Every parting is a form of death,as every reunion is a type ofheaven.
Tryon Edwards
Man cannot live by bread alone.Romanian Proverb
We look like a road company ofthe Last Supper.
Dorothy Parker
Madam, | have been looking
for a person who disliked gravyall my life; let us swear eternal
friendship.Rev. Sydney Smith
Better fare hard with good menthan feast it with bad.
Thomas Paine

8-11: A DROWNING MAN IS BEING
RESCUED
Commentary: ‘A Drowning Man is Being Rescued’ is a symbolof difficulties, relief, rescue and resuscitation. The ‘DrowningMan’ often indicates someone who’s fallen into something thatis out of his or her control and out of their depth. They can feel
like they’re being overpowered by their inability to cope withlife. This can manifest on any level, emotionally, physically orspiritually. Here, he is shown as ‘Being Rescued’, and help is, orsoon will be, nearby.
Oracle: We can feel like we are suffocated by our marriage, job,friendships, life path, etc., or through the lack of these things.Although this Symbol speaks of a ‘Rescuing’, and this mayindeed be at hand, sometimes it’s essential that we admit to thefact that we are losing control or ‘Drowning’ before a ‘Rescue’can even begin to take place. People will often lend a hand
and spontaneously arrive on the scene to help others out, but
they need to know the depths of the situation that’s occurring.
As the ‘Man’ in this Symbol is ‘Being Rescued’, it shows thatthe ‘Drowning’ has been noticed and that ‘Rescue’ or relief isimminent. People may indeed turn up to help out or this maybe a more lonely passage, with you having to rely on yourself.However, continuing to struggle on alone may not solve anything
- indeed, struggling can make things worse. This Symbol can alsopoint to co-dependent types of relationships where there is acontinual need to be available, to be on hand, and to be reliable.This can be a tiring responsibility for the ‘Rescuer’ as well asfor the ‘Drowning’ person. A true ‘Rescue’ is often found whenwe look after our own needs, even if it entails a hand-up fromsomeone else along the way. Concentrate on the shore, even if it
feels as though it’s miles away from you. Reconnect with what’spossible and real, earth yourself and know that help is at hand,
even if it’s your higher self that is performing the ‘Rescue’. Soonyou'll be able to “breathe” easily again.
Keywords: Resuscitation. Regaining one’s breath. Finding liferenewed. Asthma, bronchitis, breathing difficulties. Finding helpin moments of crisis. Needing a hand. Being rescued. Salvation onany level. Ventilators. Breathing equipment. Oxygen. Dependence.Last minute reprieves. Born again experiences. Help.
The Caution: Panicking in order to draw help rather than learninghow to cope. Constantly finding reasons for losing control ofsituations. Getting into deep water on a regular basis.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 11
The salvation of the world
consists in the salvation of the
individual soul.
C.G.Jung
Each man's task is his life preserver.
George B. Emerson
The drowning man will clutchat a straw.Proverb
Anxiety is love’s greatest killer.It makes one feel as you mightwhen a drowning personholds on to you. You want to
save him, but you know he willstrangle you in his panic.Anais Nin
You don’t drown by falling in
the water; you drown by stayingthere.
Edwin Louis Cole
Ifa man is destined to drown,
he will drown even inaspoonful of water.Yiddish Proverb
As long as you keep a persondown, some part of you hasto be down there to hold him
down, so it means you cannotsoar as you otherwise might.
Marian Anderson
Nobody heard him, the deadman, but still he lay moaning:!was much further out than youthought, and not waving butdrowning.
Stevie Smith

8-12: A BRILLIANT ASSEMBLY OF
DIGNITARIES AT AN OFFICIAL
EMBASSY BALL
Commentary: ‘A Brilliant Assembly of Dignitaries’ is shown at an
‘Official Embassy Ball’. Everyone is expected to be dressed-up, havegood manners and follow certain established codes of behavior. Asit is a ‘Brilliant Assembly of Dignitaries’, we can be sure that someof the people have worked long and hard at getting themselves intoa position of power and prestige. They must really be “someone” in
order to be invited. If they weren’t special in some way - powerful,
political, influential or somehow well connected, they probablywouldn't be at the ‘Ball’. Those that are invited range from the jadedconsulate of some country who’s tired of the social whirl all theway down to someone who’s “on their way up”. The younger and
possibly more naive are probably excited about participating in the
splendor and finery. To be invited to the ‘Official Embassy Ball’ is quite
important or special to some, whilst others will take it for granted.
Others wouldn't care to go if their life depended on it because of the
perceived stuffiness and formality of the occasion.
Oracle: This Symbol speaks of a pleasant, almost party-like
atmosphere, but one that is often caged in somewhat strict protocol
and rules of behavior. The rules and manners of society can be ratherlimiting, but there are often good reasons for them. Without codes ofethics and manners, societies, business dealings and relationships canfall apart. Look at yourself and observe whether you are being trueto your sense of self. Do you have to put on a false show in order to
belong? Do you have to put on “airs” and impress people in order tobe accepted? Would you rather be in a less formal atmosphere? Listen
and learn from those around you, interesting and useful information
can come to light. Put on your best face and behavior as connectionswith “the right people” can be made.
Keywords: Political game playing. Manners and protocol. Dressingand looking right. Who knows who and what it’s worth. Social andpolitical standing. The Cinderella story. Sparkling occasions. Knowing
etiquette. Looking for social connections and outcomes that are not
necessarily immediate. International relations. The “My Fair Lady”story. Social engineering. Speaking the right language.
The Caution: The habit of role-playing. Not being taught how tobehave in “polite society”. Having to learn how to fit in without havinginstruction. Dining, drinking and enjoying life whilst others can “eatcake”. Diplomatic standoffs. Gate crashing. Feeling out of one’s depth.Political point scoring that ignores the human dimension.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 12
You can get through life withbad manners, but it’s easierwith good manners.Lillian Gish
Politeness: The most acceptablehypocrisy.Ambrose Bierce
Etiquette can be at the sametime a means of approachingpeople and of staying clear ofthem.
David Riesman
You can’t be truly rude until youunderstand good manners.Rita Mae Brown
Never speak disrespectfully ofSociety. Only people who can'tget into it do that.Oscar Wilde
It is sometimes necessary to liedamnably in the interests of thenation.Hilaire Belloc
It is very vulgar to talk about
one’s business. Only people likestockbrokers do that,and thenmerely at dinner parties.
Oscar Wilde
The true definition of a snobis one who craves for whatseparates men rather than forwhat unites them.
John Buchan

8-13: AN INVENTOR PERFORMS A
LABORATORY EXPERIMENT
Commentary: ‘An Inventor’ is seen ‘Performing a Laboratory
Experiment’. It’s hard to know from this Symbol whether he isalone or working with others. Regardless of the circumstances,he has to take responsibility for the outcome. The ‘Inventor’ hasto imagine what is possible, gather the necessary ingredients andbe willing to take a risk on whether things will work out or not.His ‘Experiment’ may prove to be successful, scary or downrightdangerous and risky. If the ‘Inventor’ is doing something newand untried, he must be prepared to step out into unknown
territory, and be prepared for the whole thing to blow up in his
face. However, ‘Experiments’ don't really fail; although he mayhave to start all over again with a new set of plans, somethingis always gained.
Oracle: If things are not working at the moment you probably needto ‘Experiment’, trying different combinations and possibilities.In doing so you will not only most likely find the solution to thesituation, but you will also learn a lot from any errors that are
made along the way. Look for creative solutions to the situation
facing you. A lot of amazing discoveries can be made simply byhaving a go at something or creating the right mix of ingredients.As the situation unfolds, you'll learn clues as to what should bethe next thing to do, the tasks that are worth performing or therisks that you are prepared to take. Be prepared to be inventiveand make things up as you go along. Sometimes we have to just
“go for it” and do what we feel needs to be done without knowingwhat the outcome is going to be. Take a few calculated risks andalong the way you just might discover something unexpected.
Keywords: Creating one’s vision. Thinking quickly and makingmomentary decisions. Being prepared to risk failure. Bringingdifferent mixes of things and/or people together. Takingcalculated risks to see what will happen. Seeing if things live
up to expectations. Looking for answers. The “mad professor”.Mixing chemicals. Measuring and weighing. Going by one’s gut
reactions. Inventions and experiments. Discovery. Laboratories.Research.
The Caution: Becoming obscured by pointless goals. Makingthings up. Being one-eyed and focused to the exclusion of all
else. Not fully understanding the consequences of actions.
Always taking risks. Not taking adequate cautions. Not keepingtrack of what you’re doing. Ignoring warning signs. Being a “madprofessor”.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 13
Westheimer’s Discovery:A couple of months in the
laboratory can frequently save
a couple of hours in the library.Anon
Discovery is seeing whateveryone else has seen and
thinking what no one else hasthought.Albert von Szent-Gyorgi
Science is the tool of the
Western mind and with it moredoors can be opened than withbare hands. It is part and parcel
of our knowledge and obscures
our insight only when it holds
that the understanding givenby it is the only kind there is.C.G.Jung
lfyou shoot for the stars and hitthe moon, it’s OK. But you've gotto shoot for something.A lot of
people don't even shoot.Robert Townsend
Name the greatest of all theinventors. Accident.Mark Twain
Attempt the end and never
stand to doubt; nothing's so
hard, but search will find it out.
Robert Herrick
The man who makes nomistakes does not usually make
anything.
Edward J. Phelps

8-14: TELEPHONE LINEMEN AT WORK
INSTALLING NEW CONNECTIONS
Commentary: ‘Telephone Linemen at Work Installing NewConnections’ shows people working and concentrating on laying
the ‘Lines’ for ‘Connections’ so that people may communicate
with each other easily and effectively. They are laying cables
to allow for the smooth functioning of the ‘Telephone’ system.
They have a clear understanding of how the equipment works
and how necessary and valuable it is to enable people to link upwith each other.
Oracle: This Symbol reflects an increase in the forms of
communication that you can have access to, or that you have
more communications coming to you. You may find that there hasbeen a failure in communicating your thoughts, ideas or emotionslately. Something is being (or needs to be) done or laid down, inorder to solve, repair or patch up the situation. There is nothingto be achieved by worrying about any recent “connection”failures, however something should be done to set about makingor repairing the necessary ‘Lines’ of communication. Sometimesadvice and help must be called on for all to be resolved. This may
need to be expert advice, but it can also be gathered from your
own common sense. This can symbolize expansion into areaslike the Internet, faxes or business lines. It can also represent
the spiritual connection to the “other side”, even channeling.Sometimes, however, in the ‘Installing of New Connections’problems of crossed-lines occur. It’s important to listen for thereal truth in the communications that are being made, not to allthe faint chitchat that surrounds what’s being said. Networkingand new lines of communications often open up after this Symbol
is revealed.
Keywords: Acupuncture and other therapies that work on thebody’s meridians. The nervous system. The Internet. Formingnew lines of communication. New connections taking place.Linking people up. Making sure that messages get through. Mobilephones, faxes, email. Networks and networking. Switchboards.Satellites. Wires. The ability to reach far distances. Getting onother peoples’ wavelengths. Contacts. Hooking up with thesystem. UFO experiences. Mobile phones.
The Caution: Failing to see the necessity for repairs to personalcommunication. Becoming involved in other people’s lives.
Gossip. News, thoughts and ideas spreading rapidly and gettingout of control. Constant chatting. Being fickle. Sabotage. Engagedsignals.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 14
If the first person who answersthe phone cannot answer your
question it’s a bureaucracy. Ifthe first person can answer yourquestion, it’s a miracle.Gerald F. Lieberman
That’s an amazing invention
[the telephone], but who wouldever want to use one of them?
Rutherford B. Hayes (US
president)
My kids’ idea of a hard life is tolive in a house with only one
phone.
George Foreman
Well if this is the wrong number,
why did you answer it?James Thurber
In the business world an
executive knows something
about everything, a technician
knows everything aboutsomething—and the
switchboard operator knowseverything.
Harold Coffin
Gossip is nature’s telephone.Sholom Aleichem
I've suffered from all of thehang-ups known, and none is asbad as the telephone.Richard Armour
Middle age is when you're sittingat home on Saturday night and
the telephone rings and you
hope it isn’t for you.Ogden Nash

8-15: CHILDREN PLAYING AROUND FIVE
MOUNDS OF SAND
Commentary: ‘Children Playing Around Five Mounds of Sand’
shows ‘Children’ playing, enjoying themselves and each otherin a safe, natural setting. The ‘Five Mounds’ often represents the
pentacle, or pentagram. A pentacle is a five-pointed star, oftenheld to have magical or mystical significance. It isa symbol oftenassociated with and used in Wicca and pagan rites. The ‘Sand’is symbolic of impermanence; it can disperse over time, leavingonly a passing impression. The ‘Children’ symbolize innocenceand, in this case, almost a lack of awareness of the more seriousor crucial factors in their lives. Here the ‘Children Play’ in and
around the pentacle with little consideration of whether there
may be some other deeper or ritualistic purpose.
Oracle: You may feel that you have the potential for greater things,
but don’t understand what they are. Development takes time and
it is the first experience of ‘Playing’ with latent talent that leads to
greater knowledge. You will be able to fulfill your potential, butmaybe you need to start at the beginning. Nowadays, the true artof ‘Play’ has largely been lost. We have the apparent need for moreand more complicated machinery and gadgets in order to bringjoy. Much can be learnt from letting go and allowing yourself toexperience joy naturally found in the company of others. Indeed,
if ‘Playing’ is seen as sacred and special, it can be particularlyhealing. Things such as walking in the desert, doing sweat lodges,
and enjoying spiritual gatherings with others. Interacting withothers brings our “humanness” to life. It will be necessary to beconscious of their needs, as some may get ‘lost’ in this situation,losing sight of the others as they disappear behind the ‘Mounds of
Sand’. Taking things lightheartedly and enjoying the company ofother people, particularly those that are creative and intelligent,
can move this situation forward.
Keywords: Creative integration of new ideals. Five being thenumber of mankind. The value of play in getting to know one
another. Playgrounds. Crop circles. The desert. Throwing cautionto the wind. Playing ‘hide and go seek’. Shifting sands. Rituals.American Indian rites. The love of the physical world. The five
senses. Carefree and happy playgrounds and laughter. Pentacles.Witchcraft. Solomon's Seal.
The Caution: Being too serious to see life’s lighthearted side.Mourning or regretting over childhood lost. The inability to take
life seriously. Brooding and hiding.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 15
If you never did, you should.These things are fun, and fun isgood.Dr. Seuss
We must teach our children todream with their eyes open.
Harry Edwards
The only moral lesson which
is suited for a child, the most
important lesson for everytime of life, is this: “Never hurtanybody.”
Denis Breeze
There are children playing inthe street who could solve someof my top problems in physics,because they have modes of
sensory perception that! lost
long ago.Julius Robert Oppenheimer
The soul is healed by being with
children.
Fyodor Dostoevsky
The world is your playground.Why aren't you playing?Ellie Katz
And on her head, lest spirits
should invade, a pentacle, for
more assurance, laid.Orlando Furioso
Young fellows will be youngfellows.Isaac Bickerstaff

8-16: A GIRL’S FACE BREAKING INTOA
SMILE
Commentary: ‘A Girl’s Face’ is shown ‘Breaking into a Smile’. She mayhave been facing a dilemma, or seriously contemplating something.Now, there has been a breakthrough, and her ‘Face Breaks Intoa Smile’. By the mere change of her facial expression, her wholedemeanor has shifted. We ‘Break Into a Smile’ when we choose toinvite others to come closer to us. If we can’t see another’s ‘Face’, wemake all kinds of assumptions about what’s going on in their minds
- most often the wrong kind - often based on our own mindset.Road rage and email misunderstandings happen because we're not
able to read each other’s ‘Faces’. People bumping into each other inthe street when walking don’t become nearly as enraged as they dowhen they are driving cars. This is largely because people exchange
looks of apology and forgiveness, and all is forgiven or forgotten.
Oracle: There may be a need to lighten up. ‘Smiling’ not only makesus feel better, it makes others feel good as well. As happiness booststhe immune system, things are bound to turn around through
showing a positive attitude. Many things can be gained through‘Smiling’, including getting your own way. There’s the ‘Smile’ wehave when we're genuinely happy, or the ‘Smile’ we have when the
“penny drops” and something is realized or understood. A ‘Smile’may show a quiet, inner knowing, such as when you know more
than what is being said or when you have an intuitive sense of whatsomeone really means. True ‘Smiling’ can be infectious, with others
responding in the same way. If you are inviting a relationship, ortrying to heal one, ‘A Smile’ can be a great icebreaker. Others wantto see you happy, calm, accepting or welcoming. In this context the
‘Smile’ is a response to others and shows evidence of your empathyand desire to find a positive, warm, friendly outcome. Try doing itmore and see how you feel.
Keywords: Breaking the ice. Drawing others. Radiating happiness.Facial expressions. Changing one’s expression or demeanor. Facialfeedback. Making positive eye contact. Transferring feelings that liftothers. Releasing stress, worry and anger. Distances bridged betweenpeople. Being face-to-face. Teeth, lips, gums, dimples, eyes. Facial
lines. Dental work. Beauty that radiates.
The Caution: False happiness to satisfy others’ needs. Covering uphow one’s really feeling through putting on a show of happiness.Lack of sincerity. Rigidity of responses. Sour faces. Feeling sad andlonely. Keeping people on the sidelines and the periphery of one’slife. Grumpy attitudes. Refusal to communicate.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 16
One should have a general
attitude of welcoming to
everybody.
Bertrand Russell
Enthusiasm...the sustaining
power of all great action.Samuel Smiles
Smile at each other, smile
at your wife, smile at yourhusband, smile at your children,smile at each other — it doesn't
matter who it is — and that willhelp you to grow up in greater
love for each other.Mother Teresa
Beauty is power; a smile is itssword.
Charles Reade
Your day will go the way the
corners of your mouth turn.
Proverb
Flattery is from the teeth out.Sincere appreciation is from theheart out.Dale Carnegie
Fake it, fake it until you make it(until you laugh).Anon
Most folks are as happy as theymake their minds up to be.Abraham Lincoln
A tender smile,our sorrows’ only balm.Edward Young

8-17: A WOMAN, FILLED WITH HER OWN
SPIRIT, IS THE FATHER OF HER OWN
CHILD
Commentary: ‘A Woman, Filled With Her Own Spirit, is theFather of Her Own Child’. She radiates a sense of certainty andself-sufficiency about who she is. There is the feeling that shecould accomplish almost anything, as she is ‘Filled With Her Own
Spirit’. This Symbol indicates the ability one has to be able to copewith being on their own, looking after the details of life withoutanother’s help. The 'Woman' can look after the everyday needs
of her own life along with those of her family.
Oracle: This situation may reveal the sense or the reality that youneed to be totally self-sufficient at the moment, regardless of thosearound you and their input into your life. Alternatively, there can
be the feeling of having been “left with the baby”. It can indicatesingle parenthood or bringing up the young without outsidehelp. This Symbol can indicate the loss of the males in one’s life,such as the husband or father. However, it can also indicate thefeeling that one’s life is full enough as it is and the path aheaddoesn’t seem to include the desire or the need to have children.
Be wary of isolationist and prohibitive emotions, though. Is therea situation here where others are not being invited to share orbe included in your life? How are you coping with the morecomplicated tasks and chores that you have to get on with inlife? Try to remember to include others respectfully, however.Although we are all blessed with our own unique and individualqualities, it is often the combination of ourselves with others thathelps to create greater balance and depth in life. Confidence inthe future and ‘Filling’ yourself up ‘With Your Own Spirit? can
lead to wonderful possibilities. Creative projects can be birthedmore fully when one has an infinite and total connection withwhat one wants to produce.
Keywords: Single parenthood. Being proud of one’s individuality.
Feeling capable of anything. Spiritual experiences that fill one
with one’s own spirit. Self-reliance. The lack of a father figure.
Invitro fertilization. The complications of adoption. Self-sufficiency. Facing the world feeling whole. Having the right todetermine one’s future. The story of the conception of Jesus.
The Caution: Uncompromising feminism or chauvinism.Feeling like one has to be responsible for everything. Unrealisticindependence. Being left alone and abandoned. Having no one toturn to for support. Being an adult before one’s time.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 17
I don’t need anyone to rectifymy existence. The most
profound relationship wewill ever have is the one with
ourselves,Shirley MacLaine
The consuming desire of mosthuman beings is deliberatelyto plant their whole life in thehands of some other person.Quentin Crisp
At work, you think of thechildren you have left at home.
At home, you think of the workyou've left unfinished. Such astruggle is unleashed within
yourself. Your heart is rent.Golda Meir
One of the most obvious factsabout grownups to a child isthat they have forgotten whatit is like to be a child.
Randall Jarrell
It is easier for a father to have
children than for children tohave a real father.Pope John XXIll
If one is not going to takethe necessary precautions toavoid having parents one mustundertake to bring them up.Quentin Crisp

8-18: A QUIET PATH THROUGH WOODS
BRILLIANT INAUTUMN COLORING
Commentary: ‘A Quiet Path Through Woods Brilliant in AutumnColoring’. The ‘Quiet Path’ is the ‘Path’ that one should (orperhaps must) take, in order to finish something or accomplish
some mission. The ‘Autumn’ leaves are a symbol of change- the energy of the recent growth is returned to the earth inpreparation for the next growing season. There is a feeling of
transition as the leaves decay into the vegetation. Quiet walkscan reconnect one with nature.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, fruitful success is now behindyou. It is the dramatic preparation for change that has resultedfrom the fruits of your labor that surrounds you now. It is noweither on (or just after) harvest time and everything is changing.Take a deep breath and infuse yourself with nature’s gifts. ThisSymbol can also represent the opportunity to consider and reflecton the success of your recent activities. If there hasn’t beenenough success or productivity there is nothing more that canbe done for the time being as the “season for harvest” has nowfinished. Winter is coming and with it the need to recuperate andrestore energy. It is time to let the past go and prepare for makingnew plans. Whether your “harvest” has been successful or not,there will be many lessons and benefits from what has occurred.
This Symbol is about the opportunity and maybe even the need
to take time to quietly appreciate this shift of energy.
Keywords: Rewards of plenty. Transformations throughthe different seasons of one’s life. Overcoming battles anddisappointments. Finding peace. Layers of personality issuesflaking off with maturity. Gardens, sometimes off the beatentrack. Taking time out to reflect on nature. The feeling of changein the air. Mature and elegant responses. Rich colors. Memoriesand memoirs. Taking life one day at a time. Overcoming loss
through positive attitudes. Warm responses. A calm knowingness.Reverence and respect. Having a "been there, done that"attitude.
The Caution: Being too late for the harvest. Concentrating on thepast. Being oblivious to nature’s beauty. Resisting the flow of theseasons. Feeling that winter is upon you with no way out. Issuesof growing old. Being alone in one's "autumn years".
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 18
Unless a tree has borne
blossoms in spring, you will
vainly look for fruit on it inautumn.Charles Hare
The clearest way into the
Universe is through a forestwilderness.John Muir
How did it get so late so soon?It’s night before it’s afternoon.
December is here before it’s
June. My goodness how thetime has flewn. How did it getso late so soon?Dr. Seuss
Two roads diverged in a woods,and | took the one less traveled
by, and that has made all the
difference.
Robert Frost
How beautifully leaves grow
old. How full of light and colorare their last days.John Burroughs
So many gods, so many creeds,So many paths that wind and
wind, While just the art of beingkind is all the sad world needs.Ella Wheeler Wilcox
Ah! Well away!Seasons flower and fade.
Lord Alfred Tennyson

8-19: A PARROT LISTENING AND THEN
TALKING, REPEATS A CONVERSATION
HE HAS OVERHEARD
Commentary: ‘A Parrot’ is shown ‘Listening and Then Talking’.He ‘Repeats a Conversation He Has Overheard’. The ‘Parrot’ hasthe ability to mimic what’s being said and the various sounds
that surround him. In esoteric symbolism, birds often symbolizespiritual forces.
Oracle: This Symbol often infers some level of spiritual
channeling, as thoughts and words can sometimes appear to
course through a person, especially if the “messages” seem
to come from somewhere else. It can show someone who is
receptive to the thoughts and ideas that are around, or in the
environment, and can process the information to the point
where it becomes their own. The ability to convey the facts or a
message accurately and responsibly will be very important to the
outcome. However, there is a need for caution with this Symbol.It can imply messages, talk or gossip that loses its integrity onceit reaches someone who operates on an unconscious level.Translating things into different languages or repeating themcan lead to things being either more understood or less. Oneneeds to be accurate about what was actually said, and whatwas meant, before any misunderstandings take place. Look tothe source of the information in this situation; is it reliable andwas the original message understood in its entirety? Is this a
“conscious” retelling of the story? Is what’s being said comingfrom the heart, or is it really not worth listening to? Also, thisSymbol can show someone who expects instructions or ordersto be followed without question.
Keywords: Transmitting information or knowledge. The need
to integrate things into consciousness. Recorded messages.
Answering and fax machines. Mumbling. Translators, birds,parrots, news reporters, stool pigeons. Telephone operators.
Messages from strange places. Automated responses. Newlanguages. Talking to animals. Talkback radio.
The Caution: Rote responses that are ill considered. “Towingthe party line” without having any opinion of your own. Goingover the same territory. Losing true meaning through repetition.Repeating without knowing the real meaning or purpose.Meaningless banter. Tunnel vision. Gossiping. Missing the
essence of what’s being said. Not having a mind of one’s own.
Brainwashing. Re-runs of the same old line. Broken records.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 19
Sometimes they write what I say and not what I mean.Baseball player Pedro Guerrero on reporters
INTERPRETER, n. One whoenables two persons of differentlanguages to understand eachother by repeating to each
other what it would have been
to the interpreter’s advantage
for the other to have said.
Ambrose Biere
Accept your genius and saywhat you think.Ralph Waldo Emerson
You have the right to remain
silent.Anything you say will bemisquoted then used against you.Anon
When you talk, you repeat what
you already know; when youlisten, you often learn something.Jared Sparks
The real menace in dealing with
a five-year-old is that in no time
at all you begin to sound like afive-year-old.Jean Kerr
Children seldom misquote you.In fact, they usually repeat wordfor word what you shouldn't
have said.Anon
The best time to hold your
tongue is the time you feel youmust say something or bust.Josh Billings

8-20: A WOMAN DRAWING ASIDE TWO
DARK CURTAINS THAT CLOSED THE
ENTRANCE TO A SACRED PATHWAY
Commentary: ‘A Woman’ is ‘Drawing Aside Two Dark CurtainsThat Closed the Entrance to a Sacred Pathway’. She is revealinga way forward, a ‘Pathway’ that has previously been closed
off or completely unknown or unexplored. Perhaps she has
just discovered this ‘Sacred Pathway’ herself, or she could be
revealing it for others so that they may explore new realms forthemselves. ‘Drawing Aside the Dark Curtains’ can allow lightto flood ‘Dark’ corners.
Oracle: You may sense the need to venture down new ‘Pathways’
or to investigate new possibilities. You will have to muster intuitivefaith and overcome any fears in order to truly enter into thesenew realms. Having or showing courage, being inquisitive andexpressing strong desires may also be prerequisites for success in
this new arena of experience. Your sphere of action and operationare likely to become vastly enlarged with the new perspectives
that are opening up to you. All sorts of new possibilities and
opportunities are before you. These can be felt on the physicallevel, on the more mystical planes, or in a sexual way. “Pulling
back the curtains” to reveal what needs to be shown will lead
to answers to this question. Look at your situation, what exactlyis this ‘Sacred Pathway’ and where is it leading you? Is it a placethat has been dreamt about for some time, but until now therehasn’t been a guide or a traveling companion to show the way
or to share the journey? Whatever the case may be, it appearsthat help will soon be at hand in sorting out the mystery thatstands before you. Be receptive, be loving and take the step into
the unknown.
Keywords: Mysteries revealed, sometimes after a long wait.
Feminine mysteries laid out before you. Woman’s reproductiveorgans, especially the vagina. The mysteries of the Goddesses.Getting past things that are cloaked or shielded from entry orview. Sexual mysteries. Open Sesame. Clairvoyant readings that
reveal the ‘Path’. Invitations to the unknown. Drawing aside
inhibitions. Following through on things. Undressing.
The Caution: Being seduced into dark and sinister things orbeing led astray. Not being shown the true picture or the truth.Frigidity and closing off sexual responses. Being, or feeling, shutout. Dark rooms with little sign of life.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 20
Allis mystery; but he is aslave who will not struggleto penetrate the dark veil.Benjamin Disraeli
Blow the dust off the clock. Your
watches are behind the times.Throw open the heavy curtainswhich are so dear to you-you donot even suspect that the dayhas already dawned outside.Alexander Solzhenitsyn
Who’s not sat tense before hisown heart’s curtain?
Rainer Maria Rilke
The first step toward change is
awareness. The second step isacceptance.Nathaniel Branden
Of what use is the veil ifyou aregoing to dance?
Hindu Proverb
Happiness is nothing buteveryday living seen through
a veil.
Zora Neale Hurston
There was a door to which!
found no key: There was the veil
through which I might not see.Omar Khayyam
Dance me through the curtainsthat our kisses have outworn.
Leonard Cohen

8-21: OBEYING HIS CONSCIENCE,A
SOLDIER RESISTS ORDERS
Commentary: ‘Obeying His Conscience, a Solder Resists Orders’is an image of someone coming to terms with the fact that he can’tperform the duty that is expected of him because it goes againstthe grain of who he truly is, what he truly stands for and whatit is that he wants out of life. He needs to ‘Obey His Conscience’and ‘Resist Orders’. Doing things that go against the very fabricof his being may mean he may never be able to live with himself.Indeed, he may have to go AWOL and completely leave what he’sbeen expected or, indeed, trained to do.
Oracle: We sometimes find that society has drawn up rules and
regulations to live by that are inappropriate for our inner world.
When this happens, we find ourselves compromised if we are
expected to follow through or act on them. This Symbol speaks
of the need to occasionally ‘Disobey’ the structures of societyand what is expected. You may find yourself in a situation where
expectations put on you go directly against your values. There isoften the difficult choice between allegiance (to a relationship, ajob, a country, etc) and your own inner beliefs, truths, objectivesand ambitions. True freedom can only be found within when
one faces these situations with a sense of integrity and a full
understanding of the consequences that are possible. Are you
aware of and prepared for any consequences that may come
from a refusal to comply or conform to what others want? What“punishments” may come from refusing to ‘Obey Orders’? What
are the ‘Orders’, who makes them and who is responsible forthem when they’re carried out? There can be confusion aroundrelationships, resulting in difficulties in following what societysays should be done. Is it a longing for a return to a pure state
of love that freezes you? Are you prepared to stand your groundand uphold your values?
Keywords: Personal morality. Doing what one’s consciencedictates. Going against the status quo. Doing the unexpected.Going by the promptings of the inner voice. The consequencesof having a conscience. Not coming home. People clinging toeach other. Love that restrains.
The Caution: Displaying cowardice or a lack of courage to act.Not doing what one is expected to do. ‘Going over the top’ ina wild and crazy way. Going AWOL. Being the one who lets
everyone down. Court Martials. Antisocial behavior. Anarchists.Being “uncommitted” or “unavailable”. Choosing play instead ofduty. Goofing off.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 21
Aman must consider what richrealm he abdicates when hebecomes a conformist.Ralph Waldo Emerson
I’ve been trying for some time to
develop a lifestyle that doesn'trequire my presence.Gary Trudeau
He who learns and runs away,lives to learn another day.Edward Lee Thorndike
I was court-martialed in myabsence, and sentenced to deathin my absence, so! said theycould shoot me in my absence.
Brendan F. Behan
So daily I renew my duty;
touch her here and there, knowmy place; kiss her open mouth,
I praise her beauty and people
call me traitor to my face.Leonard Cohen
Theirs is not to reason why.
Theirs is but to do or die.
Lord Alfred Tennyson
I had examined myself prettythoroughly and discovered that I was unfit for military service.Joseph Heller-Catch 22
The first duty of a soldier is
obedience.G.J,Whyte-Melville
A guilty conscience needs noaccuser.Chaucer

8-22: HUNTERS PROTECTED BY HEAVY
CLOTHING ARE SHOOTING WILD DUCKS
Commentary: ‘Hunters Protected by Heavy Clothing areShooting Wild Ducks’ is an image that brings to mind people
taking unfair advantage of smaller beings. The ‘Hunters' 'HeavyClothing’ implies that they are wearing camouflage in order tohide from the ‘Ducks’, or they are somehow protected by their“garb” as they are ‘Hunting’ their prey. This ‘Protective Clothing’
can make their prey an easy target. If the ‘Hunters’ are ‘ShootingWild Ducks’ in order to make a living or to be able to eat, thenthe ‘Shooting’ seems to be more justified, or acceptable, than if
they are just doing it for sport.
Oracle: Sometimes there is the need for an outlet for aggressiveemotions. Doing so in groups gives this some sense of acceptability,
but is it ever really socially acceptable? If there is a clear cutreason for this “shooting party”, such as survival or food, thisaction may be seen as a necessary part of life. However, this often
shows innocent people or those not able to protect themselvesbeing picked on, or their lives being threatened. Bullying cantake many forms, as can violence. It doesn’t have to manifest as
actual physical violence, but can be done on a mental or emotionallevel. Be careful not to get into the line of fire in this situation, as
things might get out of control quickly, leaving you, and possiblyothers, in a vulnerable position. The ‘Heavy Clothing’ can imply
that being rather invisible protects the ‘Hunters’. They may wearsome type of masking apparel or be protected by screens such
as having an important job or role in society. Perhaps they arein the armed forces and commit atrocities in the name of war.
Their ‘Heavy Clothing’ can camouflage the fact that they arepicking on people that are in defenseless positions; indeed they
may get away with it successfully. Protecting yourself and otherswith a barrier of white light may serve to take the charge out ofwhat’s going on.
Keywords: Satiating one’s aggressive desires. Being able to hit themark. Putting up with violence in one’s life, whether physical,
mental, spiritual or emotional. Road, and other, types of rage. The
armed services and their responsibilities. War. Terrorism in its
many forms. Camouflage. Being an armed force. Armaments.
The Caution: Exploitation of those who are more vulnerable.Taking unfair advantage of the innocent or the less experienced.Feeling like a sitting duck. Nowhere to run or hide. Hormonesrunning rampant. Mindless violence. War crimes tribunals. Gangwarfare. Indiscriminate actions.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 22
When a man wants to murder
a tiger he calls it sport; when atiger wants to murder him, he
calls it ferocity.
George Bernard Shaw
There are many humorousthings in the world:among themthe white man’s notion that he
is less savage than the othersavages.Mark Twain
Always behave like a duck-keepcalm and unruffled on thesurface but paddle like the devilunderneath.Jacob Braude
The coward threatens when heis safe.
Goethe
What constitutes a real, livehuman being is more of a
mystery than ever these days,
and men-each one of whom isa valuable, unique experimenton the part of nature — are shot
down wholesale.Hermann Hesse
Have a heart that never hardens,and a temper that never tires,and a touch that never hurts.Charles Dickens
There is no decent place to standina massacre, but ifa womantakes your hand, then go andstand with her.
Leonard Cohen

8-23: A RABBIT METAMORPHOSED INTO A
NATURE SPIRIT
Commentary: ‘A Rabbit Metamorphosed into a Nature Spirit’is a rather strange image that seems rather fantastic at first. The‘Rabbit’ is changing its very nature; it is somehow “morphing”into a different being, a ‘Nature Spirit’. The ‘Rabbit’ has gonefrom using its baser, animal or sexual instincts into living as amore spiritual being. When something ‘Metamorphoses’ there
is usually a change of appearance and way of behaving or being,
but it is still the same being at a core level, just operating on a
different plane of expression.
Oracle: You may find yourself having a transformative realization
that will take your focus away from your more basic animalinstincts to a more spiritual level of perception. Your vital energiesmay remain constant, but the way in which these respond to theenvironment can change considerably. Issues such as battlingfor survival can become less important. Life takes on a differentpurpose and new and more liberating ways of acting in the worldbecome available. In shifting from a focus on the lower chakras(physical and sexual) to the higher chakras (third eye and crown)we move closer to our relationship with the universal energy that
motivates and inspires us. This transformation can lead to a calmerway of living or perhaps a more specialized state of being. Thiscan happen through having some kind of religious experience,
such as an epiphany, where we find that life changes on manylevels, leaving us somehow different and unable to go back toour old ways of being and relating. Welcoming this new stateof being can lead to incredible layers of perception unfolding,transforming life into a higher vibration and making life moreworthwhile.
Keywords: Revelation of hidden talents. Vegetarianism. Changingone’s lifestyle completely. Rapid and total transformation.Morphing. Giving up merely battling for survival. Ascension of
consciousness. Elementals. Evolution. Moving into a new levelof being. Raising one’s vibration. Complete changes. Psychicattunement. Losing one's sexual charge.
The Caution: Being dissatisfied with transformation as noteconomically useful. Feeling ineffective or impotent, having
one’s sexual power taken away. Feeling de-sexed or ‘neutered’.Losing one’s drive or libido. Feeling alone and misunderstood.Dumbed-down energies. Neglecting body in favor of spirit oremotion.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 23
We're born princes and the
civilizing process turns us into
frogs.
Eric Berne
Rabbits of the world-stop!Anon
I'm not bad; I'm just drawn thatway.Kathleen Turner as JessicaRabbit
Don't go into Mr.McGregor'’sgarden: your Father had anaccident there; he was put inapie by Mrs. McGregor.Beatrix Potter
Man is physically as well asmetaphysically a thing ofshreds and patches, borrowed
unequally from good and badancestors, and a misfit from thestart.Ralph Waldo Emerson
The moment we indulgeour affections, the earth ismetamorphosed; there is nowinter and no night; all tragedies,all ennui’, vanish, all duties even.Ralph Waldo Emerson
lam not now that which I have
been.Lord Byron
All things must change to
something new, to somethingstrange.Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

8-24: CROWDS COMING DOWN THE
MOUNTAIN TO LISTEN TO ONE
INSPIRED MAN
Commentary: ‘Crowds’ are ‘Coming Down The Mountain To
Listen To One Inspired Man’. There is a message that needs to
be heard and people are making their way to the ‘One’ who candeliver it. There must be a reason for them to come ‘Down theMountain to Listen’-there is probably something important andstimulating that they come together to receive. This ‘One Inspired
Man’ most likely has some gift, certainly he'll have the gift of
speech, knowledge and communication. There’s no guarantee,
however, that everyone is going to be receptive to what’s beingsaid; people will have many different responses to the messagesbeing given. Although it’s fairly clear that not all will be swayed,the message is likely to resonate with many.
Oracle: Whether you are one amongst the ‘Crowds’ or you are,
indeed, the ‘Inspired Man’, you may feel that you have had somewonderful realizations and insights and now you need to bringthese insights, these messages, ‘Down’, from ‘The Mountain’, andintegrate them into your everyday life in some way. It’s wonderfulto be turned on by an inspired speaker or message, but whatwill be done with these revelations or new information? Thetruth may very well lie within yourself-listening to the positive
messages from your higher self, or from others who can lift yourfocus. This can move you to take charge of your less positive
thoughts and actions. However, there may need to be some kindof thoughtful discrimination about what’s actually being saidas blindly accepting what’s being imparted can lead to a loss ofone’s individual mindset.
Keywords: Power to sway the feelings and thoughts of many.
The ability to draw a large audience. The Jesus story. Giving
one’s power away to those who apparently have more authority.Charisma. Having a large audience. The minds and the ears of themany. Oratory skills. Gurus. Listening. Ascending the mountain
to acheive a purer state of being. Lecturing.
The Caution: Naiveté, gullibility. Feeling like someone else holdsall the answers, but you don’t. Situations that smack of gurumentality. Idolatry and the manipulation that can result from it.Never knowing when to keep quiet. Forcing ideas on others whenthey don’t really want to listen. Not letting anyone else get a word
in. Demanding attention. Feeling above everyone. Snobbery.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 24
The mountains are fountains
of men as well as of rivers,of glaciers, and of fertile soil.The great poets, philosophers,prophets, able men whosethoughts and deeds havemoved the world, have come
down from the mountains.John Muir
Talking much about oneselfcan also bea means to conceal
oneself.
Friedrich Nietzsche
That person proves his worthwho can make us want to listen
when he is with us and thinkwhen he is gone.Grit
The easiest kind of relationship
for me is with ten thousandpeople. The hardestis with one.Joan Baez
It is all right to holda
conversation but you should letgo ofitnow and then.
Richard Armour
The reason there are so fewgood talkers in public is thatthere are so few thinkers in
private.Anon
And he goes through life, his
mouth open and his mindclosed.
Oscar Wilde

8-25: AN X-RAY PHOTOGRAPH HELPS
WITH THE DIAGNOSIS
Commentary: An ‘X-ray Photograph Helps With The Diagnosis’of some ailment, dilemma or situation. The ‘X-ray Photograph’allows things to be revealed that otherwise would not be seen orunderstood. The American Heritage Dictionary defines ‘Diagnosis’as: “The act or process of identifying or determining the nature and
cause of a disease or injury through evaluation of patient history,examination, and review of laboratory data.” It pierces throughexternal layers to the core of things to show what’s really there orwhat’s really going on. This can allow for remedies to be decided
and healing to be set in motion.
Oracle: You may be in need of a deeper understanding of yoursituation. There’s quite possibly the impulse to peel away the layersof the situation, using the emotions or the intellect. What is neededor wanted to be known, and what is being done to reveal the realityor structure of the situation that is facing you? Talking to othersmay be necessary, as they can help reflect to you what is reallygoing on from an uninvolved perspective. Looking somewhere“inside” for clues can bring issues to light that otherwise wouldhave gone undetected. An ‘X-ray’ is able to see through layersinto the structures of things, it cuts through extraneous, orunnecessary, details to get to the heart of the matter to find outwhat’s going on. We can use our minds to the same effect; with a
clever ‘Diagnosis’ we can delve into things to find solutions andremedies. Likewise, a ‘Photograph’ can freeze life in one momentof time. These “snapshots” can show us many things and cananswer questions that may have otherwise long gone unanswered.Someone in this story can be feeling that it is impossible to hideanything as someone is scrutinizing every move that’s made. Lookdeeply, you'll come up with a ‘Diagnosis’.
Keywords: Penetrating insight. Piercing through externalappearances. Pure understanding. Incredible insight and
revelations. Having the eyes to see. X-ray machines, spying,detective work. Reaching conclusions. Evaluations. Photographs.Negatives. Radiation. X-ray vision. Expensive and up-to-dateequipment. Chemotherapy. Mammograms. Scanning equipment.Finding causes. Paparazzi.
The Caution: Disregarding the flesh on the outside-the humanityof people. Invading other people’s psychic or intellectual space.Undressing or revealing people through subtle manipulation.Always being intense and dissatisfied with the easy, or obvious,
answers.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 25
A smart mother makes oftena better diagnosis than a poordoctor.August Bier
The doctors X-rayed my head
and found nothing.
Dizzy Dean—US baseballplayer
Creativity is piercing the
mundane to find the marvelous.Bill Moyers
Life is uncharted territory. Itreveals its story one moment atatime.Leo Buscaglia
To him that watches, everythingis revealed.Italian Proverb
DIAGNOSIS, n. A physician’s
forecast of the disease by the
patient's pulse and purse.Ambrose Bierce
Ifyou don't ask the rightquestions, you don’t get theright answers.A questionasked in the right way oftenpoints to its own answer.Asking questions is the ABC of
diagnosis. Only the inquiringmind solves problems.Edward Hodnett
If your pictures aren't goodenough, you aren't close enough.Robert Capa

8-26: AMERICAN INDIANS MAKING CAMP
IN NEW TERRITORY
Commentary: ‘American Indians Making Camp in New Territory’
shows people seeking out and finding somewhere ‘New’ to set up
their lives. They’ve found somewhere suitable to make ‘Camp’ and
are probably busy going about their business to ensure they'll becomfortable and their needs will be met as best they can. Perhapsit's intended that they'll stay long-term in this ‘New Territory’ butit could also be that they’re just there for the short term and willbe moving on before long.
racle: Someone-perhaps many people-have found ‘Newterritory’and there is a need to acclimatize, assess the environment and gettheir lives in order. There is also the need to adjust quickly on
a psychological level to the environment they are settling into.Whether it’s the actual moving of home, or settling into a newjob, you need to feel at home in both an inner and outer sense.
This ‘New Territory’ doesn’t necessarily have to be about actualencampments; its “newness” can be represented in an emotionalor spiritual framework. However, if someone doesn’t feel at home,there may be a creeping sense of unease as you or others find it
hard to relax and feel safe and accepted in this new environment.If there is no real conflict over this ‘Territory’ and no stepping
on other people’s toes, this can be a very enriching experiencethat can lead to all sorts of new experiences, relationships andpossibilities. However, people sometimes merely inhabit a space
and then depart leaving a mess all around them. How can youand others help in making an effort to ensure that everyone'sterritory, living and personal space, and even emotional space is
not overcrowded, compromised or damaged in some way?
Keywords: Settling in. Walk-ins. Having to learn the rules ofbeing in a new environment. The need for freedom to liveone’s life as one wants. Concerns with territory. Immigration.
Migration across countries. Gathering things together for familyand community needs. Tents. Shelter. Co-habitation. Revering and
protecting the environment. Setting up camp. Going walkabout.Squatters. Respecting boundaries. Reservations.
The Caution: Moving into or invading other's territory. Putting up
with things when one should move on. Feeling invaded. Kicking
people out because they don’t fit in or don’t belong. Segregation
on grounds of color, race or religion. Compromising other's living
space. Arriving unannounced. Barging in. Attack and invasion.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 26
We are the land.To the bestof my understanding, that isthe fundamental idea thatpermeates American Indian life.Paula Gunn Allen
Illegal aliens have always beena problem in the United States.Ask an Indian.Robert Orben
A hundred men may makean encampment, but it takes
a woman to make a home.Chinese Proverb
|don't feel we did wrong in taking
this great country away fromthem. There were great numbers
of people who needed new land,and the Indians were selfishlytrying to keep it for themselves.John Wayne
Some national parks havelong waiting lists for campingreservations. When you haveto wait a year to sleep nextto a tree, something is wrong.George Carlin
The Puritans gave thanksfor being preserved from theIndians, and we give thanksfor being preserved from thePuritans,Finley Peter Dunne
Life is uncharted territory. Itreveals it's story one moment ata time.
Leo Buscaglia

8-27: A MILITARY BAND MARCHES
NOISILY ON THROUGH THE CITY
STREETS
Commentary: A ‘Military Band’ is shown. It ‘Marches Noisily OnThrough The City Streets’. As it makes its way along the streets it
draws attention to itself through its music and the loud bangingof drums. The ‘Military Band’ can inspire national pride amongst
the onlookers, or it can arouse suspicion and distrust as people areleft wondering just what the real agenda is. Is the ‘Military Band’rallying people together or is it just flexing ‘Military’ muscles toshow the common folk who’s in charge?
Oracle: There is occasionally a need to make a show for
society to remind us of our own or our country’s successes
and achievements. You may find that this will take up a great
deal of your time possibly for no real return, but the morale of
those around you will benefit and that should be the true goal.
Sometimes there’s a perceived need to impress others with one’sexistence, so that they don’t forget that you exist. However, thisSymbol can also show people who make enormous amounts ofnoise and demand attention, drowning out all that is going onaround them. These people are often hard to ignore and can be
irritating and downright disruptive. Perhaps they have a “drumthat they need to bang” in order to wake up others who are notpaying attention to their needs, wants or desires or they aretrying to wake people from their apathy. Sometimes the mereact of showing attention, appreciation and admiration can stopthe need for such noisy displays and bring everything back to a
more peaceful space.
Keywords: Making music to rouse people from complacency.Noisy announcements. Demanding attention. Trumpetingachievements. Reminders from the authorities that individualsare often not in charge. Celebrations of past battles. Corporateadvertising. Peace rallies or war marches. Marching and drills.Precision movements. Baton twirling. Drums and trumpets. Spitand polish.
The Caution: A lot of volume that can be too pompous. So muchvolume that the true message gets lost. Demanding to be heard.
Banging one’s drum, even when others might be unresponsive
or not want to hear. Blaring announcements. Warnings to othersto follow orders or to be complicit. Big ego displays. Propaganda.
Threats to peace. Momentary disruptions.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 27
If a man does not keep pace
with his companions, perhapsit is because he hears a differentdrummer. Let him step to themusic which he hears, howevermeasured or far away.Henry David Thoreau
We should face reality and ourpast mistakes in an honest, adultway. Boasting of glory does not
make glory, and singing in the dark does not dispel fear.
King Hussein
Love is not a victory march.
Leonard Cohen
The intellectual man requiresa fine bait; the sots are easilyamused. But everybody is
drugged with his own frenzy,
and the pageant marches at allhours, with music and banner
and badge.Ralph Waldo Emerson
Once vigorous measures appearto be the only means left ofbringing the Americans to adue submission to the mothercountry, the colonies will submit.King George Ill
Military justice is to justice
what military music is to music.Groucho Marx
Military intelligence is acontradiction in terms.
Groucho Marx

8-28: THE KING OF THE FAIRIES
APPROACHING HIS DOMAIN
Commentary: ‘The King of the Fairies’ is seen ‘Approaching HisDomain’. He understands, or has a sense of, where he belongs and hisplace in the overall scheme of things. He is approaching or reclaiming
what somehow “belongs” to him. He may have been away from histrue place for a long time, he may have had some reason to leavetemporarily or he may never have known (or found) where his true
place was. Whatever, he is now coming closer and closer to his‘Domain’, his “realm”.
Oracle: This pictures a situation of someone who needs to feel in
charge, or that they are an authority figure or they are in their own
element. ‘His Domain’, in this situation, is not necessarily a place that
would be broadly seen as a “kingdom”, but it can appear to be so intheir mind. There can be the feeling that there is a nice, calm andspiritual place to be found. You may feel that you, or someone else,
are finally finding the place where one can belong or feel comfortable.
This may have been after a long period of being somewhere alien,
or in a place that didn’t resonate with their true self. A new sense ofclaiming one’s power, being a ‘King’, someone “in charge”, may arise.As this is said to be the ‘King’s Domain’, this place may be outside of
or disconnected from the normal rules and expectations of society.Hence, it can show someone living in a world of his or her own
creation or imagination. There can also be the feeling of having someform of power over others. Power and leadership should be accepted
and embraced with humility and gratitude, not merely throwingaround the ego. People will then show respect and gratitude. Being
a prominent “leader” can be fine as long as there’s no exploitation or
demands made upon the people around. Some probably have, afterall, kindly agreed to be the ‘Fairies’.
Keywords: Imaginary worlds. Finding a place. Feeling comfortable.
Taking command of life. Leadership and its responsibilities. Feelinglike a dominant leader and that one has a doting populace. Beingwelcomed. Midsummer Night’s Dream. Returning home. Web
domains. Finding one’s true vocation or purpose.
The Caution: Imaginary worlds and dependence on trickery. Ridicule
aimed at those that don’t have their feet on the ground. Someoneacting like a “hot shot”. Feelings of superiority which alienate others.The fear of approaching the unknown. Never finding a real place tosettle down. Fairy tales about how life could or should be. Lordingit over others. Being bossy and commanding. Being impotent. Thefear and loathing of having to accept one’s true place. Not takingcommand of one’s life. Loneliness. Feeling locked out.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 28
Lord, what fools these mortalsbe!William Shakespeare
The king is the man who can.
Thomas Carlyle
A little kingdom I possess,Where thoughts and feelings
dwell; And very hard the task I
find Of governing it well.Louisa May Alcott
I could be bound ina nut shell
and count myself a king ofinfinite space.William Shakespeare
But above all things |strive totrain them to be useful to the
Holy Church of God and for theglory of your kingdom.Alcuin of York
I am, indeed, a king, for |knowhow to rule myself.Pietro Aretino
Obsessed by a fairy tale, we
spend our lives searching fora
magic door and a lost kingdomof peace.
Eugene O'Neill
Unfortunately this earth is not..a fairyland, but a strugglefor life, perfectly natural andtherefore extremely harsh.Martin Bormann
Not what! have, but what! do ismy kingdom.Thomas Carlyle

8-29: AN INDIAN WOMAN PLEADING TO
THE CHIEF FOR THE LIVES OF HER
CHILDREN
Commentary: ‘An Indian Woman’ is ‘Pleading to the Chief For the
Lives of Her Children’. Something that the children have done, or aresuspected of doing, has led to the ‘Children’ needing the ‘Woman’to stand up for them, state their case clearly and ask for mercy orleniency. It could be that the ‘Children’ are not really children, butare something merely seen as being useless, expendable or to besacrificed for other causes.
Oracle: You may find a need to stand up for those in your care,
whether it is your ‘Children’, your ideals, creative pursuits, or other
people. Even if they might somehow draw or deserve rejection,
punishment or judgment, there is a need for you to act as a go-between, or an advocate. It needs to be remembered, though, thatbeing “deserving of punishment” is often a perception of society, and
quite probably prejudice, and not always something that’s grounded
in reality. On the other hand, you may need someone else to be
an advocate or to translate your feelings or actions so that othersmay understand. The solution will probably best be found not so
much in being defensive as in simply asking for leniency, or thatattention be paid to the matter at hand. Apologies may need to be
made. When people understand what is truly going on they oftenrelax and this serves to take a lot of the emotional “charge” out of
the proceedings. As the situation is brought more into the light,and people see what’s really happening, there is usually a lot of the
pain, distrust and fear taken away. People will be more forgiving oraccepting if they understand the full picture.
Keywords: Patterns of family dominance. Pleading one’s cause.Seeking love, mercy or forgiveness. Asking higher powers to stepin, help or heal. Intercession. Counseling. Protecting the younger
ones. Family law courts, magistrates, lawyers. Divorce. Young people
taken seriously. Guilt and innocence. Weaving words to a desired
outcome. Intervention. Schools. Juvenile delinquents. Being nailedfor an offence. Speaking on behalf of others. Tribunals. Begging formercy. Custody battles. Sexual discrimination. Advocates.
The Caution: Being dominated. Sacrificing one’s self for peace andquiet. Making a spectacle. Ramming one’s opinions. Going on the
defensive. Bullying and browbeating. Harping on and on about things
that should be forgiven or forgotten. Disruptive elements that getaway with anything. Being expelled. Being made an example of.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 29
All humanity is one undividedand indivisible family, and each
one of us is responsible for the
misdeeds of all the others. I cannot detach myself from thewickedest soul.
Gandhi
Blessed are the merciful, forthey shall obtain mercy.The Bible
Children need love, especiallywhen they don’t deserve it.Harold Hulbert
Children wish fathers lookedbut with their eyes; fathers thatchildren with their judgmentlooked; and either may be wrong.William Shakespeare
In the early days of the IndianTerritory, there were no suchthings as birth certificates. You
being there was certificateenough.
Will Rogers
Few parents nowadays pay anyregard to what their children sayto them. The old-fashioned respectfor the young is fast dying out.
Oscar Wilde
Pretty much all the honest truthtelling there is in the world is
done by children.Oliver Wendell Holmes
God could not be everywhereand therefore he made mothers.
Jewish Proverb

8-30: CHILDREN IN HALLOWEEN
COSTUMES INDULGING IN VARIOUS
PRANKS
Commentary: ‘Children in Halloween Costumes’ are seen‘Indulging In Various Pranks’. They are most likely having awonderful time, playing around in the streets, going door todoor and watching the reactions of the people they encounter.
Sometimes they wear lots of makeup and masks in their endeavor
to win people over or to convince them that they deserve their
treats. If they don’t receive a treat, or reward, sometimes they get
very mischievous and play ‘Pranks’ on people. This Symbol canshow the ‘Prankster’ in all of us, in some measure. ‘Halloween’ issaid to be a time when the veil between the living and the deadbecomes an illusion, nebulous or very thin.
Oracle: You may feel that the trickster is out and around at themoment, or you may be the focus of pranks. Whichever, it shouldbe acknowledged that there needs to be an occasional outlet for
immature or fun loving energies. Often, though, it’s hard to relaxwhen this energy is around. It can be difficult to know when totake things at face value or to see, or realize, a deeper meaningwhen it can be loaded with illusions. Not knowing what’s goingto happen next can lead to a feeling of un-ease. What ghoulishemotion or reality may emerge next? Are these tricks or is this
more about things getting blown up and out of control? What’simportant here is to play the game, or to go along with it, and to
know that it’s basically harmless. This can picture somebody whojust can’t take anything seriously. In the true sense of ‘Halloween’,the ‘Prankster’ is not really malicious in any way and is reallylooking for a reward. Gifts, small trinkets or the fun of seeingsomeone’s shock and reaction, whether this is superficial or real,is probably enough. In the end, it’s often really only about play.
Keywords: The madman inside all of us. Astro-drama. The liftingof the veil between the living and the dead. Unintegrated energies
playing tricks on the unwary. Tricksters. Creative surprises.Halloween. Trick or treat. Practical jokes played on the unwary.Roaming the streets. Dressing up. Ghouls and ghosts.
The Caution: Being unable to connect with real and immediateemotions. Contempt for the establishment. ‘Mucking around’ andnot getting to the core of things. Evading one’s responsibilitiesthrough being silly or madcap. Not respecting other people'sboundaries.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Scorpio 30
It is a double pleasure to trickthe trickster.
Jean de la Fontaine
Alas! That such affected tricks
should flourish in a child of six!
Hilaire Belloc
If there was a trick, there mustbe a trickster.Dorothy Miller Richardson
There’s no trick to being ahumorist when you have the
whole government working foryou.Will Rogers
You can’t teach an old dogmanew tricks.Dorothy Parker
But man, proud man, drest ina little brief authority, mostignorant of what he's most
assured, his glassy essence
like an angry ape, plays such
fantastic tricks before highheaven as make the angelsweep.William Shakespeare
Curses are like processions: theyreturn to whence they set out.Italian Proverb

9-1: RETIRED ARMY VETERANS GATHER
TO REAWAKEN OLD MEMORIES
Commentary: ‘Retired Army Veterans Gather to Reawaken OldMemories’ is an image of a gathering or reunion of people whohave shared some kind of companionship, struggle or history. Inthis ‘Gathering’, comrades reminisce about tales of the “old days”,‘Reawakening Old Memories’. Gathering together can ignite old
feelings of camaraderie and great passions, even amongst peoplethat they may not remember or know so well. This can evoke manyemotions, all the way from sadness to laughter and amazement.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, going over the memories of“old battles” may bring clues to how you can handle any currentones. You may be drawn to those who have shared your struggle
or have gone through similar battles in life. Perhaps you haven'tseen each other for a very long time. Through sharing these ‘OldMemories’, old wounds can be healed as new insights are gleaned.There’s a need to be cautious, though, as this ‘Gathering’ can oftenexclude those who don’t measure up or fit in. This Symbol canpoint to a feeling of “being in the club”, with those that don’t share
these memories feeling as though they’re on the outside, lookingin. Are there people who feel that they are left out of sharing these
experiences? Having not had the same history, experiences or thewoes of battle that the others have, can make them feel that theyare on the other side of the fence, and, in extreme cases, theymay seem like “the enemy”. Also, the ‘Gathering to Reawaken OldMemories’ can reinforce injuries, wounds and hurts and these canbe brought up, so that they’re rehashed over and over. This cancause difficulties in healing, recovery, forgiving and forgetting,all of which may be necessary in order to move on. As these are‘Retired Army Veterans’, it’s through the passing of time and withthe hindsight of age that many things can be laid to rest.
Keywords: Masculine domains. Understanding the individual'sneeds and idealistic struggles. Moratoriums and calls for peace.Past life memories of fellowship. Prisoners of war. Memorials
to war. Bringing up painful memories in the hope of sharingunderstanding and healing. Tears of the past. Being confronted
by memories. School, and other, reunions. Talking over strategies.
Finding comrades. Brothers and sisters.
The Caution: Being unable to let go of the past. Exaggerating pastsuccesses to justify current strategies. Excluding others as being“unworthy”, having not experienced the struggle or pain. Goingover things from the past and never letting them go. Boasting andglorifying. Identities that belong in the past.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 1
When the days of rejoicing are
over, When the flags are stowedsafely away, They will dream ofanother wild ‘War to End Wars;And another wild Armistice day.Robert Graves
I like to reminisce with people|don't know.Steven Wright
Great perils have this beauty,
that they bring to light thefraternity of strangers.Victor Hugo
Forsake not an old friend, forthe new is not comparableunto him.A new friend is as
new wine: when it is old thoushalt drink it with pleasure.Ecclesiasticus
There is no stronger bond
of friendship than a mutualenemy.Frankfort Moore
The so-called lessons of historyare for the most part the
rationalizations of the victors.
History is written by the survivors,Max Lerner
Those who cannot rememberthe past are condemned torepeat it.George Santayana

9-2: THE OCEAN COVERED WITH
WHITECAPS
Commentary: ‘The Ocean Covered With Whitecaps’ shows what
happens when the wind whips up the surface of the ‘Ocean’,turning the water to froth. The wind can sometimes quickly
bring up a storm, coming seemingly from out of nowhere.What appears on the surface is often very different from what’shappening just below it. Things are, or are going to be, muchcalmer and quieter than you would imagine from looking at thewhipped up ‘Whitecaps’.
Oracle: The day-to-day experiences of life can create a “quickwind” which can blow out of control if things get overheatedor overstated. Because these experiences take up a lot of space
in our current thoughts, they seem to be more important than
they really are. In essence, they are really only passing by, justso much “froth and bubble” or “monkey chatter” and will soonbe replaced by other considerations. The effect, however, canplay havoc with your emotions and can create some storms oftheir own. At this time there seems to be a lot going on and youmay feel that your emotions are on a real bumpy ride. You mayfind that surface emotions have been whipped up and this has
led to a concern that is disproportionate to the depth of thereal issue before you. Things have a deeper sense of strength
and permanence than they seem on the surface. Whether your
situation contains difficult components, or whipped up andexcited ones, the truth of the matter is that the foundations ofyour life are much more settled and the surface emotional distress
is probably just misleading matters. Staying anchored to what is
true, permanent and stable in your life can help you get throughwhatever has been churned up. If you understand that the windwill die down, or at least change, then you can simply ride out
this time secure in the strength of your deeper stability. Gettingbelow the surface where things are calmer and more reliablecould alter your perspective.
Keywords: Mobilization of energy and emotions. Safety in more
secure emotions. Blustery days. Churning thoughts. Being flightyand changeable. Overblown reactions. Energy that needs an outletfor expression. The need for stillness and meditation.
The Caution: Getting fussed and irritable over nothing, or at leastvery little. Nervousness. Whipping up emotions and reactions.Overdoing things. Not knowing how to rest. Responding tooreadily to external conditions. Gathering gloom.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 2
Thou shalt not separate thy
being from BEING, and therest, but merge the Ocean inthe deep, the drop within the
Ocean.H.P. Blavatsky
Don't think there are nocrocodiles because the water iscalm.Malayan Proverb
The winds and the waves arealways on the side of the ablestnavigators.Edward Gibbon
Always behave like a duck—keep calm and unruffled on thesurface but paddle like the devil
underneath.
Jacob Braude
Still waters run deep.
Proverb
Below raging waves, the
depths of the ocean do notchurn as does its surface.Down there, temperature,depth and salinity create thehydrodynamics.Philip Sedgwick
The populace is like the seamotionless in itself, but stirredby every wind, even the lightestbreeze.Titus Livius

9-3: TWO MEN PLAYING CHESS
Commentary: ‘Two Men Playing Chess’ is an image of peopleconcentrating and planning moves in order to defeat their
opponent in a game. They have to be quiet, focused and attuned_ to what it is they’re doing if they want to succeed. The theme of
a ‘Chess’ game is to knock the opponent out, to literally kill the
king, and to take his position and his territory. There can be acertain degree of tension in the air as each tries to “checkmate”the other. First, one may appear to be “winning”, and then the
other may make a sudden, sometimes completely unexpected or
unforeseen move, get the upper hand and take the whole game.
Alternatively, it could be an all-out slaughter if one person is more
practiced or efficient at the game than the other.
Oracle: In the current situation you may need to be very
thoughtful and cautious about the moves you make and the risks
that you are prepared to take. It’s important to take into account
the wider picture and all the possible outcomes of any actions
taken. Impulsive acts with no forward planning will probably be
risky and may lead to others taking advantage of the situation.
The same can happen if you show your weak side. There can be
a lot at stake here if you lose, but there may be much to be gained
if you win. Effective strategies and forward thinking maneuvers
are needed. Take some time to compose yourself and assess
what’s really going on: you may then find the way forward orout of the maze or conflict. However, it can be very difficult torelax in this type of competitive environment—one often feels
that they can’t let their guard down for one moment in case they
are taken advantage of, or overtaken, in some way. Keep your
concentration focused on the main aim and outcome. Take one
step at a time, thinking all the while, and move with purposeand forethought.
Keywords: Strategic competition. Seeing the picture several moves ahead. Arguments that can go on and on. Finding justification for being combative. Throwing down the gauntlet to the other. Taking lives. The need for peacekeeping. War strategies. Matching wits. Facing each other head on. Being royalty or being a mere pawn. Tactical maneuvers. Lawsuits. Custody. Having the bigger stick. Divorce. Disputes. Wit against wit.
The Caution: Depending on pure luck. Understimating the opponent's skill or strategy. Arguments and arguing for the sake of it. Bickering and trying to get the better of the other. Always taking an opposing side, no matter what is really happening.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 3
A quarrel is quickly settled whendeserted by one party: there is
no battle unless there be two.Seneca
Once the game is over, the kingand the pawn go back into thesame box.Italian Proverb
It is one of man’s curiousidiosyncrasies to createdifficulties for the pleasure of
resolving them.
Joseph Marie De Maistre
Sometimes you have to movebackward to get a step forward.Amar Gopal Bose
What a strange game. The onlywinning move is not to play.Anon—On war games
Victory goes to the player whomakes the next-to-last mistake.Savielly GrigorievitchTartakower—Chess master
Daring ideas are like chessmenmoved forward. They may bebeaten, but they may start awinning game.Goethe
I feel as if I were a piece in
agame of chess when my
opponent says of it: that piece
cannot be moved.
Soren Kierkegaard

9-4: A LITTLE CHILD LEARNING TO WALK
WITH THE ENCOURAGEMENT OF
PARENTS
Commentary: ‘A Little Chiid’ is shown ‘Learning to Walk Withthe Encouragement of Parents’. The ‘Child’ needs the support of
the ‘Parents’ in order to learn how to do many of the most basicthings. The ‘Child’ needs guidance, love and encouragement inorder to grow and have faith in his or her own abilities. Sometimeswe have the ‘Encouragement’ and support of our elders, other
times not. The ‘Parents’ can’t be there all the time to catch the‘Little Child’ if it falls, so the ‘Little Child’ must learn to masterthe steps that are needed in order to become an independentand confident grownup.
Oracle: You may be moving into a new phase of learning that,despite all your previous experience, is surprisingly difficult.
Patience and step-by-step progress is needed now. There may bethose around you who don’t take your difficulties seriously, but
the struggles to make progress will finally pay off, enabling the
situation to move forward. This Symbol pictures a new situation
that has to be tackled in a new way. You may feel nervous abouttaking your first steps towards what you want to accomplish.This may have something to do with the need for increasedindependence and while it may be exciting, it can also be nerve-wracking. Adopting creative methods and having an open mindand heart will help guarantee progress, even if it’s not always easy.‘Encouragement’ and praise from others often helps to bolsterthe persistence that’s needed to move past this ‘Learning’ phase.
True independence from outer circumstances takes time to learnand achieve. Being patient and not judgmental or demanding inthis situation will bring rewards.
Keywords: Making genuine progress or always tripping over.
Instinctive determination to get on with the job. People takingdelight in the smallest progress. Baby steps leading to big
things. Trying out and accepting one’s individuality. Help fromauthorities. Seeking guidance and advice. Feeling mother earthunder your feet. Parental assistance. Walking on new ground.
The Caution: Relying on skills not yet mastered. Not taking theinitiative to put one’s self forward. Putting your self at risk rather
than accepting help. Acting like one is incompetent in order to
draw sympathy and/or help. Meddling and “assisting” when oneshould be on the sidelines, encouraging. Knowing that someone
is going to “trip over” and not offering help.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 4
A toddling little girl is a center
of common feeling which
makes the most dissimilarpeople understand each other.George Eliot
Life is just a short walk from the
cradle to the grave—and it sure
behooves us to be kind to oneanother along the way.
Alice Childress
We are all novices. Only thedead have nothing left to learn.Anon
One step ata time is good
walking.
Chinese Proverb
We spend the first twelvemonths of our children’s lives
teaching them to walk and
talk and the next twelve tellingthem to sit down and shut up.
Phyllis Diller
Children, you are very little,
And your bones are very brittle;Ifyou would grow great andstately, You must try to walksedately.Robert Louis Stevenson
Parents who are afraid to puttheir foot down usually havechildren who step on their toes.Chinese Proverb

9-5: AN OLD OWL PERCHED HIGH UP IN
A TREE
Commentary: ‘An Old Owl is Perched High Up in a Tree’. Withthe ability to twist his head right around, the wise ‘Old Owl sees
all, seeing what others miss, and keeps very quiet whilst digestingall that is going on. Even though they appear to sit quietly, the‘Owl is able to quickly snare its prey in the flash of a moment.The ‘Old Owl’ pictured here is ‘Perched High Up in a Tree’; he isfar from the tumult at ground level and is out of reach from mostpredators. He can observe wide vistas below him and watch forprey. Owls also have incredible sense of hearing, pinpointing
sounds accurately.
Oracle: This Symbol can indicate a degree of insomnia caused byan active mind and thinking too much at bedtime. What are thehidden elements of the situation facing you? Ifyou sit quietly apart
from things for a while and really endeavor to see “in the dark”,you'll reveal things that previously only lurked in the shadows.You may need to consult with aged wisdom, either from within
yourself or from the outside world. Knowledge of any type, butparticularly knowledge garnered from books, can lead you toseeing farther into very difficult situations where everythingseemed dark, and sometimes forbidding. The ‘Owl’ may looksleepy and sedate but it can move very fast the minute is seeswhat it wants - it can move with surprising swiftness to catch itsobjective. Emulating this behavior can bring a certain solitude,
but this may be just what is needed. However, a feeling of beingseperate, high and remote can cause alienation, so be watchfulfor when its time to start actively participating in life again.
Keywords: Wisdom and strength. Evening contemplation.
Keeping thoughts to oneself. A wise “sage” type of person.Nocturnal vision. Exalted wisdom. “Night owls”. Heightened sight
and seeing. Being silent and alert for the slightest movement. Theability to see all around. The spirit of birds. Silent flight. Havingacute hearing. Lofty ideals.
The Caution: Smug denial of available wisdom. Someonethinking they know it all. Not wanting to join in with others in
fun activities. Acting old before their time. Excluding others asbeing frivolous and unknowing. Waiting for one’s prey. Black
magic. Being old before one's time. Always being alone. Remoteand cut off. Sitting isolated. Saying nothing when one should besaying something. Inability to sleep soundly.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 5
A wise old owl sat on an oak;
The more he saw the less he
spoke; The less he spoke themore he heard; Why aren't welike that wise old bird?
Edward Hersey Richards
Think first and speakafterwards.Proverb
The barn owl’ left earishigherthan the right and points downto catch sounds from below. His
right points up to hear above.365 Amazing Trivia Facts
Alone and warming his five wits,The white owl in the belfry sits.Lord Alfred Tennyson
Nature has given us two ears,two eyes, and but one tongue—
to the end that we should hearand see more than we speak.Socrates
The world is governed more byappearances than by realities,so that it is fully as necessary to
seem to know something as toknow it.Daniel Webster
The quality of decision is likethe well-timed swoop of afalcon which enables it to strike
and destroy its victim.Sun Tzu

9-6: A GAME OF CRICKET
Commentary: ‘A Game of Cricket’ is seen. ‘Cricket’ is a ‘Game’
that is associated with gentility, gamesmanship and decorum. Itis a bat and ball game played on green fields with “gentlemen”players, all dressed in their “whites”. There are two teams, with11 players each. It is a game of skill, fairness, and peaceful
cooperation amongst its players. In days of old, particularly in
England, people would gather from around the district to playon the field or on the pitch and the ‘Game’ was usually one offriendliness and good-humored sportsmanship.
Oracle: This reflects a time when it is not necessarily the game
that is important, but how it is played. You may find that integrityis vital in this situation and your honesty and ability to “play bythe rules of the game” will give you just rewards, even if thereis some initial sacrifice. Careful teamwork is probably neededto stop things getting through the gaps. Although the situationmay take some time, everyone must keep on their toes, ready forsomething that may come out of “left field”. It is important in this
situation for everyone to understand the expectations required
of them. Honesty and integrity are important, and also highlyregarded. Behaving against these expectations can receive a harshreaction and treatment and possibly even rejection from others
on the playing field. This is not the time for anyone to be pushingthe envelope to test what is acceptable to the rules of society. Therules and guidelines for operating in this situation are, or shouldbe, made very clear - there will be some form of punishment for
dishonesty. There is a need to remember everyone's position inthe game: your own and others. Also, every game has its rules.
Keywords: Playing by the rules. Stiff upper lip responses.
Seeing through the illusions of what constitutes “polite society”.
Having a role to play in the game of life. Sportsmanship. Being
the “batsman” or the “bowler”. Running and playing. Fair play.Impeccable behavior. Moving at will around the field. Scoring
runs. People in the outfield. Holding the bat. Winning the toss.Opposing teams. Games that go on for day after day. Patience.Summer games. Going by the umpire’s decision. Everyone havinga go.
The Caution: Difficulty in showing one’s true feelings andemotions. Going against the rules of the game. Something thatsimply “is just not cricket” (fair play). Curve balls. Being caughtout. Games that are boring and long-winded. Being the 13th man.Silly rules that don't make sense.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 6
Only mad dogs and Englishmengo out in the noonday sun.Indian Proverb
Always keep your composure.You can’t score from the penalty
box; and to win, you have toscore.Bobby Hull
How aman plays the gameshows something of hischaracter, how he loses showsall of it.Anon
Please don’t ask me what the
score is, I’m not even sure whatthe gameis.Ashleigh Brilliant
Baseball, like cricket, is anelegant and leisurely summergame during which tension
builds up slowly.U.S. Department of Commerce
Cricket... you have two sides:one out in the field and onein. Each man that’s in the sidethat’s in goes out and when he’sout he comes in and the nextman goes in until he’s out.Anon
If you must play, decide on three
things at the start: the rules of
the game, the stakes, and thequitting time.Chinese Proverb

9-7: CUPID KNOCKING AT THE DOOR OF
A HUMAN HEART
Commentary: ‘Cupid Knocking at the Door of a Human Heart’ isan image of love asking to be let in. Barriers and defenses may be
keeping him from coming inside, but how long will the ‘Heart’ beable to resist? Opening the door to one’s ‘Heart’ can lead to newopportunities and possibilities around the issue of relationships.
Finding “the key” to the ‘Heart’ can lead to big realizations aboutone’s self and others.
Oracle: It is particularly important to allow your heart center
to open when you are in caring company as this can lead toamazing new things happening in your life now. By releasingyour emotions and letting your guard down you open up the
possibility for romantic love. However, do look out for any
unrealistic projections put onto others and the need for seeking
love, salvation or joy only through the other. We must find it inourselves first before finding it in someone else, if that is whatwe really want. Having your consciousness overwhelmed withthe thought, love or presence of another can be uplifting, but
it can also become a burden. Being consumed with the love ofa person can be quite stifling, whether you are on the giving orthe receiving end. This is especially so if your affections are notreciprocated. If the other person doesn’t respond in the sameway, it can lead to sadness, bitterness and obsessive tendencies.Certain relationships can feel fated or impossible to ignore.Another aspect of this Symbol is that you may already be in arelationship with someone and a new love pops up unexpectedly.
Is someone tapping you on the shoulder whilst you’re busy not
taking any notice? What is the true depth of your relationship?Regardless, as ‘Cupid is Knocking’, it appears that somethingwonderful is trying to get into your life. Are you resisting 'Cupid's
Knock'?
Keywords: Respectful invitation of love. Seeing purity of motive.
Fear of commitment. Fear of romance. A key or an arrow. Cupids
and cherubs. Unlocking the heart. One-pointed, focused energy,
which can become obsessive. Softening one’s boundaries. Cupid’s
bow. The need to lighten up one’s approach to others.
The Caution: Waiting instead of taking the initiative. Rejectinglove or emotion for fear of losing independence. Keeping up astrong, brave, severe face when one could be loosening up and
enjoying another. Barriers and defenses around the heart. Seeingpotential lovers in everyone. Being attracted to those you wouldn't
normally notice. Frigid responses.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 7
Gravitation cannot be heldresponsible for people fallingin love.Albert Einstein
Two friends, two bodies with one soul inspired.Homer
Those that go searching for loveonly make manifest their ownlovelessness, and the loveless
never find love, only the loving
find love, and they never haveto seek for it.D.H, Lawrence
It’s alittle bit the fiddle, butlots more who holds the bow.
Wilburn Wilson
The bow kept taut will quicklybreak, kept loosely strung, it willserve you when you need it.Plato
Friendship is love without hiswings!Lord Byron
You kiss my lips and then it's
done.
Leonard Cohen
lam not the one who loves-it'slove that chooses me.
Leonard Cohen

9-8: DEEP WITHIN THE DEPTHS OF THE
EARTH, NEW ELEMENTS ARE BEING
FORMED
Commentary: ‘Deep Within the Depths of the Earth, NewElements are Being Formed’ indicates that deep, organic changes
are occurring. Whilst these shifts may be big, significant andextremely life changing, they may not be all that obvious on thesurface. It seems certain that ‘Deep’ down and ‘Within’, there isa lot going on, regardless of one’s external demeanor.
Oracle: You may find new responses to life coming from deep
within your mind and soul. This creation of new and essentiallevels of awareness is part of the natural result of inner changesand growth. ‘Within the Depths’ of our lives and our very being
there are extraordinary layers of possibilities, complications anddivergent ‘Elements’. Psychology and astrology can reveal these‘Depths’, through which the personality can be seen more clearly
in its many elements. The way these ‘Elements’ of our lives andour natures are combined results in the complex nature of ourbeing. These ‘Elements’ can be enriched by the experiencesof life, the lessons being learnt, and, as a result, new ways ofbeing can be embraced and accepted. It is almost inevitable thatthis development will occur, but living a shallow existence or
stubbornly refusing to accept the inevitable changes that happen
within and around us can restrict energy. Allowing your inner‘Depths’ to be transformed and enriched by life is part of what
this Symbol is about. This Symbol also reflects the imminent,or inevitable, rising of these ‘New Elements’ to the surface, andthe need for you to look ‘Within’ to benefit from this inner shift.
Know that, by the very nature of having experiences in life, we
are intuitively creating new potential, greater possibility anddeeper wisdom in our lives.
Keywords: Deep elemental processes and change. Shifting ofconservative values. Mining in its many forms. Crystal healings.Minerals, mining, colloidal minerals. Organic changes and shifts.Volcanoes and earthquakes. Earth rumblings. Reaching maturity.Earth, wind, fire and water. Mud and steam. Alchemical shifts.
The Caution: Moving forward while elements are still forming.
Denying inner processes as unimportant. Not showing any changeon the surface. Clinging stubbornly to old and outworn ways.Being afraid of change, particularly that which can’t be seen.
Unhealthy growths. Tumors.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 8
No pressure, no diamonds.
Mary Case
Crystals grew inside rock
like arithmetic flowers. They
lengthened and spread, addedplane to plane in an awed
and perfect obedience to an
absolute geometry that even
stones—maybe only thestones—understood.Annie Dillard
|prefer to explore the most
intimate moments, the smaller,
crystallized details we all hinge
our lives on.Rita Dove
In the attitude of silence the
soul finds the path in a clearer
light, and what is elusive anddeceptive resolves itself intocrystal clearness. Our life is a
long and arduous quest after
Truth.
Mahatma Gandhi
I see where we are startingto pay some attention to ourneigbors to the south. We could
never understand why Mexicowasn't just crazy about us; forwe have always had their goodwill, and oil and minerals, at
heart.Will Rogers

9-9: A MOTHER LEADS HER SMALL
CHILD STEP BY STEP UP THE STAIRS
Commentary: ‘A Mother Leads Her Small Child Step by Step Up
the Stairs’ pictures a situation where one needs to assist someone
less experienced or indeed, possibly less evolved, to overcome
difficulties and to rise up and learn to cope, to learn about lifeor to understand. The ‘Mother’ is there to guide and encouragethe ‘Small Child’ in taking these rather unfamiliar ‘Steps’. Even ifthe ‘Child’ stumbles, trips or falls, the ‘Mother’ should be thereto protect, guide and facilitate these new experiences.
Oracle: You may find yourself in this situation as either the
experienced or the inexperienced one, or possibly finding the
‘Mother’ within you guiding your own “inner child”. This Symbolis also about the way we develop the innocent elements of theinner self. Our inner qualities, as well as our outer ones, maturethrough experience, but it is important to remain aware of theprotection we need to give to this growth. It is also importantto remember to take your time, and to allow development to
occur ‘Step By Step’. To rush because there is a fear of some
danger or failure is more likely to cause a problem than takingit easy. Mistakes are easily made when we’re approachingsomething that we’re unfamiliar with—something that we, orothers, haven’t yet learnt the ‘Steps’ of. Patience and guidanceare extremely necessary in order not to discourage the ‘SmallChild’ who’s learning very important lessons here. There may bea need to “hang back” whilst everyone else is charging forward;quick moves and harsh attitudes can be off putting to those ina vulnerable or less powerful position. Watching and observing
the progress of this situation will reveal how best to deal with itas various issues arise.
Keywords: The inner child. Guidance and acceptance of thosenot so “upwardly mobile”. Training. Careful consideration ofother’s immaturity or failings. Staying with the family in orderto bring up the children. Guardianship and stewardship. Reversals
of roles. Supervising parents. Looking after the younger or the
elder. Taking things one by one. Alzheimer's disease. Handicaps.Step-by-step progress.
The Caution: Future vision and hope obscured. Exhausted byconstant parental obligation. Not getting, or giving, the help thatone needs. Being bossy and judgmental, thereby missing the joy
inherent in the moment. Lack of supervision or training. Refusingto grow up. Wanting to be looked after.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 9
The best thing about the future isthat it comes one day ata time.Abraham Lincoln
Children aren’t happy without
something to ignore, and that’s
what parents were created for.
Ogden Nash
What an elder sees sitting; theyoung can't see standing.
Ibo Proverb
No matter how high one’s
aspirations may be, it must be
achieved step-by-step.Buddyo Dendo Kyokai
Children, taught either years
beneath their intelligence ormiles wide of relevance to it, or
both: their intellect becomes
hopelessly bewildered, drawn offits centers, bored, or atrophied.James Agee
Every time you don't follow your
inner guidance, you feel a loss of
energy, loss of power, a sense of
spiritual deadness.... we needto be willing to let our intuition
guide us, and then be willing to
follow that guidance directlyand fearlessly.Shakti Gawain
My mother had a great deal oftrouble with me, but! think she enjoyed it.Mark Twain

9-10: A THEATRICAL REPRESENTATION OF
A GOLDEN HAIRED GODDESS OF
OPPORTUNITY
Commentary: ‘A Theatrical Representation of a Golden HairedGoddess of Opportunity’ is a wonderful image of promise, talentand possibility. The ‘Theatre’ traditionally represents “escape andfantasy” for the people in the populace. The audience expects
to be entertained and they hope for something marvelous to
happen. Whether the “storyline” of the play or presentation is
fact or fiction, they will often hang onto every word or movementmade.
Oracle: This Symbol can represent an offer that seems too good torefuse. It is probably only a reasonable reward for your efforts. You
may want to respond quickly, almost impulsively, but there may be
a need for caution. The temptation may be hard to resist, and it ismost likely an opportunity that is worthwhile, but having a good,hard look at what’s being ‘Represented’ is probably necessary.
You can still think the situation through if you act quickly. Let
down any barriers or self-critical restrictions and listen to yourheart as well. Try not to overestimate the rewards or outcomes
as these may cloud your consideration. There may indeed be a
great ‘Opportunity’ before you that will have a positive outcome.
Just how grand it is, isn’t really important. This Symbol is alsoabout presenting something you believe to be a wonderfulopportunity to others. There probably needs to be some form
of performance or presentation made. This may not be a time
for a quiet chat or waiting for others to come to you. You need
to present your idea, and yourself, for an audience. You need to
touch their emotions and show confidence. The best way is tobe honest and clear and come straight from the heart. How canyou advertise or promote yourself or your product so that it gets
the best possible response?
Keywords: Distinguishing reality from theater. Feeling that
the “world is your stage”. Playing out a story. Seeing others as
a gateway to riches or fulfillment. Being “the talent”. Being an“overnight success”. Glamour and the allure of the media. TheAcademy Awards. Autographs of the noted. Seeing opportunityahead of its time. Auditions. Promotions.
The Caution: Propaganda. Constantly chasing “things” that cometo nothing. Being exploited or exploiting others for personal gain.Giving a deliberate false impression regarding opportunity andgood fortune. Shallow adoration.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 10
A golden key can open anydoor.Proverb
Personality is the glitter thatsends your little gleam across
the footlights and the orchestra
pit into that big black space
where the audience is.Mae West
All the world’s a stage andmost of us are desperately
unrehearsed.Sean O’Casey
It’s one of the tragic ironies ofthe theater that only one manin it can count on steady work is
the night watchman.
Tallulah Bankhead
Sometimes I worry about being
a success in a mediocre world.Lily Tomlin
Ability is of little accountwithout opportunity.Napoleon Bonaparte
The bigger the informationmedia, the less courage andfreedom they allow. Bignessmeans weakness.
Eric Sevareid
Vulgarity is, in reality, nothing
but a modern, chic, pert
descendant of the goddessDullness.Dame Edith Sitwell

9-11: IN THE LEFT SECTION OF AN
ARCHAIC TEMPLE, ALAMP BURNS
IN A CONTAINER SHAPED LIKE A
HUMAN BODY
Commentary: ‘In the Left Section of an Archaic Temple, aLamp Burns in a Container Shaped Like a Human Body’ picturesa need for linking the spirit and the ‘Body’. Sometimes we needto remember to be “in our bodies” and this Symbol shows thereward that can come from regarding our body as our ‘Temple’.Logic is not always involved in this equation; it speaks more of
emotions, spirit and physicality.
Oracle: Watching bodily rhythms can teach us something aboutthe timing of our biology. There’s a need to eat when we needto, to sleep and exercise when we need to; to be alive and happy.The spirit within us can shine out to enliven the spirits in others.We can somehow amplify light ourselves, like the ‘Lamp thatBurns’, shining outwards, projecting our spirit and personality.
To provide clues to your current situation, it may be a good idea
to light a ‘Lamp’ or a candle and place it to ‘The Left’ of whereyou're sleeping, working, eating or exercising. The ‘Temple’ ofthis Symbol implies that there may be a need for peace and quiet
and respect. There may be a feeling that one somehow doesn’t“belong” in their body. Is someone losing the plot and “leavingtheir body” in this situation? Is there a need for groundingyour physical energy? How are you regarding your body andfeeding yourself? Having faith and belief in one’s self can lead to
knowledge and enlightenment. Rituals of many kinds can helplink mind and body so that a healthier you can emerge. This
period may mark an incredible leap forward in understanding
and consciousness.
Keywords: Connecting the left and right sides. Working out,physical fitness and exercise. Yoga. Grounding reality. Sexuality.Realizing that body is the same as spirit. Remembering to bein the body. Light workers. The acceptance of the body and its
functions. Sport and its physical rewards. Metabolic rates. Oilburners. Gas lamps. Aladdin's lamp.
The Caution: Worshiping the body at the expense of the intellect,psyche or spirit. Concentrating exclusively on physical desires
and needs. Needing actual physical evidence to accept anything.
Being caught up in the illusion of the body, the “physical self”.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 11
Every man is the builder of atemple, called his body, to thegod he worships, after a stylepurely his own, nor can he
get off by hammering marble
instead. We are all sculptors and
painters, and our material is ourown flesh and blood and bones.
Henry David Thoreau
A bodily disease may be but asymptom of some ailment inthe spiritual past.Nathaniel Hawthorne
He who knoweth the preceptsby heart, but faileth to practice
them, Is like unto one who
lighteth a lamp and thenshutteth his eyes.
Nagarjuna
If anything is sacred the humanbody is sacred.Walt Whitman
Sometimes our light goes outbut is blown again into flameby an encounter with another
human being.Albert Schweitzer
For this is the great error of ourday in the treatment of thehuman body.That physicians firstseparate the soul from the body.
Plato

9-12: A FLAG TURNS INTO AN EAGLE;
THE EAGLE INTO A CHANTICLEER
SALUTING THE DAWN
Commentary: ‘A Flag Turns into an Eagle; the Eagle into a ChanticleerSaluting the Dawn’. Although symbols stretch across time and space
with their own vibrations, this image is a particularly American one.
To quote Dane Rudhyar from his book ‘An Astrological Mandala’:“The ‘Flag’ is the abstract symbol of the nation; it becomes an“eagle’—another U.S. symbol—when the concept is made alive bybold and transcendent action. The ‘Eagle’ symbolizes spiritual willand the power to rise to the highest possible altitude of consciousness
and purpose. Flying at such an altitude, the ‘Eagle’ is the first livingcreature to perceive the rising sun. Having perceived it, it heraldsit—and by so doing is identified with the crowing ‘Chanticleer’, whohad convinced himself that his resonant cry was responsible for therise of the sun and the coming of the new day”.
Oracle: This is a time when our highest ideals can be felt deeply and
proudly and as an expression of spiritual purity all the way to pride inour selves and our nation. You may find that you are moved to burst
forth with expressions or declarations of your higher self. Any issuethat is really worthwhile and “centered” will be seen and heard in
the clear light of day. However, you may need to be wary of forcing
your opinions on others—especially on those who disagree or havea different view of things. Although it may be difficult to restrain theforward momentum contained here, there’s a need to be cautiousof going overboard with enthusiasm in the company of others. Thiscan alienate people and cause distrust. Having said that, if there has
been something you've wanted to do or say but have felt held back,
now’s the time to go for it. The ‘Dawn’ reveals that a new day and
the possibility of a new life is coming, and with it ideals that haveto be allowed for, spoken about and expressed in life.
Keywords: Declared idealism. Trumpeting ideals. National pride.Peak experiences. Flags. Symbols of strength, unity and power.Truths. The pomp and ceremony of big political displays. Issues
of nationhood. Issues of world domination. Elevated views andperspectives. Forceful voices. Reaching for the highest plane.Nobility and pride. Successful outcomes. National anthems. New
empires. Messages from the president.
The Caution: Assuming one is right only because of might or
power or because one can say it the loudest. Propaganda. Lordingit over others. Seeing other “nations” as being lesser. Loud voices.Bullying.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 12
Thoughts and emotions are onlymomentary. Stand upright, speakthy thoughts, declare the truth
thou hast, that all may share;Be bold, proclaim it everywhere:They only live who dare.Lewis Morris
Vision without action is a
daydream. Action withoutvision is a nightmare.Japanese Proverb
Freedom is the sure possessionof those alone who have thecourage to defend it.
Pericles
There should be an EmperorFabulous, don't you think?
Eddie Izzard
Success is a personalstandard—reaching for thehighest that is in us—becomingall that we can be.
Zig Ziglar
The chasm between theprinciples upon which thisGovernment was founded, inwhich it still professes to believe,and those which are dailypracticed under the protectionof the flag, yawn wide and deep.Mary Church Terrell

9-13: A WIDOW’S PAST IS BROUGHT TO
LIGHT
Commentary: A ‘Widow’s Past is Brought to Light’ speaks of thingscoming out of the ‘Past’ for people to see and learn about. There’sa story or a situation from the ‘Past’ that is finally being revealed.
Something may have been known to exist but exactly what it washasn’t been made clear. Now, there’s been an event, and somethinghas been revealed; a story or situation from the ‘Past’,
Oracle: You may find that the ‘Past’ catches up with you, or someone
you know, at this time. Although there may be sympathetic feelings
in the hearts and minds of those around, somebody may not likewhat is being shown or revealed. This needs to be handled withcare. Somebody’s issues, history, deeds or personality have now,or will soon, come ‘To Light’. This may be rather confronting orupsetting and it can take time to adjust to this new information.It often causes us to have to look at something, or someone, or arelationship, in a new “Light”. As this Symbol pictures a ‘Widow’,often there’s a feeling that the situation is one with a long historyor is rather old, even possibly outworn, in some way. Issues were
probably previously left in the dark or “in the closet”, suppressed
by someone or at the very least forgotten about. Some may think itwould have been better if these things had been left undisturbed
and not ‘Brought to Light’. Dwelling on issues from the ‘Past’ canlead to the loss of joy in the present, so there needs to be carefulthought about just where you direct your attention. However, ahealing is often made possible by things being revealed. Try lightinga candle, or a special ‘Light’, and allow illumination to pour over thesituation. This can cast new ‘Light’ and understanding and allowyou, and others, to banish the shadows of the ‘Past’. Further, oftenwhat was considered a “scandal” in former times is now nothing
much of consequence and can be washed away rather easily.
Keywords: Unveiling and exposing—or creating a new andvibrant beginning. Getting rid of yesterday’s darkness. Looking
back to revision attitudes. Being freed for new opportunities. The“scales” falling from one’s eyes. Reasons as to why relationshipshave failed. Remembering. Past life memories. Things being foundor discovered, Wills. Inheritances. Death certificates. Burying thepast. Pensions. Insurance policies.
The Caution: Old stories best forgotten. Dead-end feelings hanging
around. Gossip and family secrets that hurt and otherwise causeharm. Feelings rehashed detrimental to stability. Someone beingcaught out. Bearing the weight of secrets.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 13
I wept not, so to stone within I grew.Dante
“Widow”isa harsh and hurtfulword. It comes from the Sanskrit
and it means “empty.” |have
been empty too long.Lynn Caine
The secret to life is that there isno secret.Anon
None are so fond of secrets asthose who do not mean to keepthem.
Charles Caleb Colton
Truth, when not sought after,
rarely comes to light.
Oliver Wendell Holmes
What the eye doesn't see, theheart doesn’t grieve over.
Anon
Make it a rule of life never to
regret and never to look back.Regret is an appalling wasteof energy; you can't build on it;
it's only good for wallowing in.Katherine Mansfield
Every family has a skeleton inthe cupboard.Traditional Proverb

9-14: A VAST PANORAMA OF SAND ANDTIME IS
UNFOLDING;THE PYRAMIDS AND SPHINX
IN THEIR GLORY RISE BEFORE THE EYE
Commentary: The ‘Pyramids and Sphinx’ are a picture of grandeurand history. They stand as testimonials to days long gone. ThePyramids were built some 4,500 years ago, but probably not, as many
believe, by slaves. Evidence suggests that social organization built the
‘Pyramids’. The ‘Pyramids’ at Giza were the foundation of the firstnation state and the beginning of modern civilization. To participate
in the building of the king’s ‘Pyramid’ was an honor that was soughtby families right across Egypt. People, goods and livestock came fromall corners of the country. The workers were respected, educated and
healed if they were injured. This Symbol can speak of any large edifice,
especially those that seem to hold some mystery as to how or why
they were built. Ancient history is full of such human and spiritualwonders: Stonehenge, the great stone walls of Macchu Picchu and theGreat Wall of China. They provide intriguing puzzles into the human
mind and just how vast human accomplishment can be.
Oracle: There may be a feeling of the need to establish some typeof monument. It can be something that makes a huge impression,something that won't easily be forgotten. Organization of peopleand labor towards a common goal on any scale can lead to greataccomplishments. You may need an architect or a tour guide, and
inner wisdom, as this will guide you. The resources that are availablecan bring re-evaluations to current dilemmas. However, slave laborhas very few real rewards. Be wary of merely being used for someone’sgrand agendas. Further, matters could have a lack of clarity aboutthem. Is something in this situation so big or so difficult, it can hardly
be approached? Is it really becoming outworn or outlived? Are youseeing the huge gulfs between the haves and the have nots?
Keywords: Ancient histories and mysteries. The power of the pastaffecting today’s world. Spiritual ancestry. Mysteries that enrich.Decoding. Magicians and prophets. Secret messages or tricks ofperception? Majestic properties. Riddles. Ingenuity. Plans and theexecuting of them. Egyptian things. Levels of power. Pyramid
marketing. Taxes. The rich versus the poor. The American monetarysystem. World finances. The World Trade Centre. Masonic mysteries.Cement, sand, plaster. Tools. Architects. Builders.
The Caution: Treasures robbed by the greedy. Monuments that belittle
other, lesser achievements. Aloofness through perceived superiority.Proclaiming treasures from the past more worthy, or grander, than
present perceptions allow. Slave labor. Anonymity of the masses.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 14
History, although sometimes
made up of the few acts of thegreat, is more often shaped by
the many acts of the small.Mark Twain
History is the version of pastevents that people have decidedto agree upon.Napoleon
When Moses was alive, thepyramids were a thousand years
old... Here people learned tomeasure time by a calendar, toplot the stars by astronomy...Here they developed that mostawesome of all ideas—the idea
of eternity.
Walter Cronkite
All we know is still infinitely lessthan all that remains unknown.William Harvey
Nobody even knows what a“henge”is.Eddie Izzard—on Stonehenge
Order and simplification are thefirst steps toward the mastery ofa subject.
Thomas Mann
The hallmark of our age is thetension between aspirations andsluggish institutions.John W. Gardner

9-15: THE GROUND HOG LOOKING FOR
ITS SHADOW ON GROUND HOG DAY
Commentary: ‘The Ground Hog Looking For its Shadow onGround Hog Day’, by its reactions and movements, provides cluesas to whether winter would continue or spring will come with itswarmth and rewards. As ‘Ground Hog Day’ is in February in thenorthern hemisphere, it symbolizes a time of cold, snow and thestiff breezes of winter. Although more fable than real, the ‘GroundHog? is said to be able to sense whether there’s a change in the air.If he feels spring approaching, he gives a sign so others may know
and anticipate it themselves. The ‘Ground Hog’ is somewhat of a
“star” on ‘Ground Hog Day’, as people are watching him, wondering
what he will signal. There is a lot of projection happening here asthe animal is not consciously doing anything.
Oracle: You may need some sign to give you insight into the future.The solution to your question is close by and easy to perceive. It is
based in your normal environment and relationships. Don’t focuson things continuing to be hard or difficult, as this can lead to itactually happening. Don’t read too much into things, as they may
not be as they seem. However, acknowledging your ‘Shadow’, andyour projections and perceptions, will bring the clarity that’s sought.Reading books, watching movies or television, hearing the words ofa song, observing everyday life and the people around can remind
you of things that have happened in your life. However, continuallyor compulsively looking for signs of assurance when they can bereadily available on the physical plane can lead to losing your way,
and worrying too much about what you cause in your life. Therecan be difficulty in finding rest, or sleep, when one looks continuallyat their life and the effects that one creates. Are you relying onmessages from the past? People may be with you, or this may be a
lonely journey. Welcome the spring, and don’t look back!
Keywords: Looking back, reading the signs. Divination and othersystems of inquiry. Seeing society as being to blame. People havinga good look at how they seem to others. Wondering how othersperceive you and picture you. Prophets that can tell the “weather”ahead of time. Predictions. Prognosticating. Welcoming an early
spring. Scrutinizing objectives and possible outcomes. Looking tonature for clues.
The Caution: Being scared to act without some message ofconfirmation. People (or society) looking for someone else to blamefor conditions. Relying on the same solutions without considerationof changes. Blizzards and the cold.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 15
Nice going boys, you're playing
yesterday's tape.
Ground Hog Day
Life can only be understoodbackwards; but it must be lived
forwards.Soren Kierkegaard
The measure of a man’s real
character is what he would do
if he knew he would never be
found out.Thomas B. Macaulay
Does Phil feel lucky?
Ground Hog Day
If you hate a person, you hate something in him that is partof yourself. What isn’t part ofourselves doesn’t disturb us.Hermann Hesse
The life that is unexamined isnot worth living.Plato
A little man often casts a long
shadow.
Italian Proverb
If you stand straight do not feara crooked shadow.
Chinese Proverb
He has great tranquility ofheart who cares neither for thepraises nor the fault-finding inmen.Honore de Balzac

9-16: SEA GULLS FLY AROUND A SHIP
LOOKING FOR FOOD
Commentary: ‘Sea Gulls Fly Around a Ship Looking For Food’symbolizes the search for sustenance in the form of handouts
from the sailors, or the fish that get stirred up in the wash of the
‘Ship’. The ‘Seagull’ often has no need of loyalty to anyone but to
him or her self, although there may be young ones who need to
share what food or other nourishment can be found.
Oracle: This pictures a situation of dependence, sometimes codependence. Don’t look to others or have others look to you for
opportunities and nourishment, for someone may miss the chance
of being creative and truly independent. Continually looking and
waiting for one’s ship to come in, in order to be fed or otherwise
looked after and sheltered, can be a tiring responsibility and one
that isn’t always appreciated by others. Look carefully, is someoneusing someone? If there is no nourishment, food or resourcessuch as money, to be found where one is looking, there may be
a need to seek elsewhere. There may also be the need to watch
the situation very closely to see what is really going on. If youare a ‘Sea Gull’, hovering around waiting to see what you caneasily find or get for nothing, you will probably need to move
fast in order to take advantage of opportunities when they popup. For one thing, they may not last long, for another; there maybe others that are on the lookout for the same things. If you arethe ‘Ship’ the ‘Seagulls’ are circling, be wary of the motives ofothers wanting things from you. It can as if people are waitingfor things to be “thrown overboard”, or for things to fall off the‘Ship’. Who’s looking for scraps? Are they worth it? People who
settle for very little often find that very little is what they endup getting.
Keywords: Losing sight of alternative possibilities and going forthe easy “feed”. Issues of dependence. Diminishing one’s essential
worth while trying to please a specific need. Being opportunistic.Settling for the small things in life. Scalpers. Jettisoning scraps.Leftovers. The rewards and pitfalls of “meal tickets”. Issues ofsocial security. The homeless.
The Caution: Waiting for scraps that may not even be worthit or may never come. Losing the opportunity to care for one’sself in an independent manner. Giving away one’s power. Being
opportunistic at the expense of others. Being ripped off. People“kissing and running”. Users and abusers. Having satellites.Hovering for scraps.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 16
We need to learn to set our
course by the stars, not by thelights of every passing ship.
Omar Nelson Bradley
When the seagulls follow the
trawler, it is because they thinksardines will be thrown into thesea.Eric Cantona—Commentingon the press
Where the carcass is, there shallthe eagles be.Proverb
I eat like a vulture.Unfortunately the resemblancedoesn’t end there.
Groucho Marx
Aman with a surplus cancontrol circumstances, butaman without a surplus iscontrolled by them, and oftenhas no opportunity to exercisejudgment.
Harvey S. Firestone
A pessimist is one who makes
difficulties of his opportunities;an optimist is one who makesopportunities of his difficulties.
Reginald B. Mansell
A wise man will make moreopportunities than he finds.Sir Francis Bacon

9-17: AN EASTER SUNRISE SERVICE
DRAWS A LARGE CROWD
Commentary: ‘An Easter Sunrise Service Draws a Large Crowd’is an image of people coming together in the early hours of the
morning, at ‘Sunrise’, to celebrate the joy of the resurrection ofJesus Christ. Our souls are renewed with the beauty of spring andthe celebration of the resurrection of the Savior, Jesus. We canfind hope and our faith deepened during this significant eventin the life of Christ. Although 'Easter' is a Christian festival, thissituation can apply to any creed where rebirth and redemption
is the path.
Oracle: Whatever the situation facing you, this is a time of
spiritual rebirth where you, and others, can rise above the failingsof the past into a whole new beginning. Coming out of doubt anddespair will enable everyone to concentrate on what is possiblein this new era. As this ‘Easter Sunrise Service Draws a LargeCrowd’, it seems that there is, or needs to be, an unwavering faithin communal spiritual values, although there can be a feelingof society offering up something or someoneto sacrifice or to
purge the guilt or the sins of the past. We need to move past themore difficult issues or the problems of our histories, particularlyissues where someone felt a sense of failure, loss, despair, betrayalor unfaithfulness. Forgetting past hurts and insults in favor ofenjoying the reality of life in the here and now will lift everyone’sspirits. However, it may indeed be possible to resurrect ideas,situations or people that long since felt lost, or indeed, bringthem back from “the dead”. The present needs to be seen in the
light of a new era, with the difficulties of the past being laid torest for good. Join with others in expressions of joy as this can
lift everyone’s spirits. Rituals performed with ceremony, or going
to a church or temple can reconnect you spiritually.
Keywords: Performing deeds with reverence, respect and asense of celebration. Cohesive communal expressions of faith.The dawning of a new era. Church services. Dawn services. Thecommunity gathering fora common purpose. Resurrections andrebirths. Revivals. The need for faith in a bright future. Devotion.Worship.
The Caution: Obsession with the ceremony rather than the truepurpose or ideal. Feeling unable to lift one’s spirit. Loss and
shame of the past clouding the possibilities of today’s reality.Disillusionment around issues to do with the Church.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 17
Do not abandon yourselvesto despair. We are the Easter
people and hallelujah is oursong.Pope John Paul II
I come not to entertain youwith worldly festivities but toarouse your sleeping memoryof immortality.
Paramahansa Yogananda
The act of divine worship is the
inestimable privilege of man,the only created being whobows in humility and adoration.
Hosea Ballou
But every act in consequenceof our faith, strengthens faith.Anna Letitia Barbauld
Do not let your deeds belie your
words, lest when you speak
in church someone may sayto himself, ‘Why do you notpractice what you preach?”Saint Jerome
Everyone ought to worshipGod according to his own
inclinations, and not to beconstrained by force.
Flavius Josephus
Every day people are strayingaway from the church and
going back to God.Lenny Bruce

9-18: TINY CHILDREN PLAYING IN
SUNBONNETS
Commentary: ‘Tiny Children Playing in Sunbonnets’ is an imagethat brings to mind childlike, carefree fun in a protective, caringenvironment. The ‘Children’ are protected from the strong and
sometimes fierce rays of the sun by wearing ‘Sunbonnets’. Wecan assume that their mothers or other carers have put them onfor them. They don’t have to worry about sunburn and beingexposed to the elements, all they need to do is 'Play’. Although
they may interact with the other ‘Children’, some may just play
their own individual games side-by-side with each other.
Oracle: In your situation, someone may be in need of protectionat the moment, and it is most likely for their own good, as longas there is not the sense of being “overprotected” and insulatedfrom having to be responsible for themselves. Without having toworry about complicated details and difficult consequences, thefeeling of a sense of security and safety can lead to more carefreeand playful moments. Don’t be distracted by efforts being made
by others on your behalf, sometimes we need to be shielded by_ others from harmful elements. However, sometimes we also needto feel or intuit our way through the surface appearance of what’sreally going on. There can be a sense of having to keep someemotion or anger away, so as not to disturb or frighten others, orourselves, but this may lead to having the “blinkers” or "blinders"on and not seeing life as it truly is. Is there a sense of naivety here
and missing the real point of life? Is someone being kept in thedark, or kept from seeing reality? On the other hand, you mayneed to look after others and ensure that their well-being is atthe top of the list of priorities. Approaching this question with achildlike, carefree attitude, whilst all the while keeping a true eyeon the situation, will probably bring the message that’s needed.Whatever, there’s a need to remember to play and have fun.
Keywords: Care taken with small beginnings. Protection orblinkering? Propaganda that hides more severe life realities.Censorship. Innocence. Being treated like a child. Mollycoddling.Sunblocks and sunscreens. Screens that filter.
The Caution: Overprotection by institutionalized procedures that
can lead to not being able to see the whole picture. “Organized
religion” and it’s blinding of society to the true joy within andwithout. Infantile behavior. Being left in the dark without a clue
as to what’s going on. Naivety. Being overshadowed by ego. Abuse
and neglect.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 18
Once you bring life into theworld, you must protect it. Wemust protect it by changing the
world.Elie Wiesel
With each passage of humangrowth we must shed aprotective structure [like ahardy crustacean]. We are leftexposed and vulnerable—butalso yeasty and embryonicagain, capable of stretching inways we hadn’t known before.Gail Sheehy
Won't the new ‘Suggested forMature Audience’ protect ouryoungsters from such films? |
don’t believe so.! know many
forty-five-year old men with the
mentalities of six-year-olds, and
my feeling is that they shouldnot see such pictures, either.Shirley Temple Black
Let children read whatever they
want and then talk about itwith them. If parents and kids
can talk together, we won't
have as much censorshipbecause we won't have as
much fear.Judy Blume
We all live in the protection of
certain cowardices which wecall our principles.
Mark Twain
9-19: PELICANS DISTURBED BY THE
GARBAGE OF PEOPLE MOVE THEIR
YOUNG TO A NEW HABITAT
Commentary: ‘Pelicans Disturbed By the Garbage of PeopleMove Their Young to a New Habitat’. ‘Pelicans’ in Christian artare a symbol of charity; they are also an emblem of Jesus Christ
by “whose blood we are healed’”. This comes from the myth that‘Pelicans’ feed their young with their blood which arose fromthe fact that the parent ‘Pelican’ transfers softened food from thelarge bag under its bill to its ‘Young’.
Oracle: This Symbol often pictures the realization that conditions
are changing and you, your family (and sometimes friends) don’tfeel safe and secure in your environment. You may need to moveto a new situation that can provide a better way of life with morenourishment and less danger. This can also refer to an inner
withdrawal from situations that feel threatening or unsure. It canbe a case of having to leave homes, places or people that haveoutlived their usefulness or relevance in your life. A change ofheart and mind can lead to new beginnings, with the past beingleft behind. Pollution or ‘Garbage’ on any level can lead to a sense
of unease in one’s environment and the fear of how one cancope in the future. There may be a need to actually pick up one’s
possessions and move out of the path of some form of danger. If
your environment is “polluted” by negative people, attitudes orsome other form of debilitation or ‘Garbage’, is it worth staying
there? Are threats being taken seriously enough? This “danger”can manifest on any level; physical, emotional or spiritual. It canerupt as psychic or emotional outbursts that can be threateningor toxic; rubbish that is difficult to contain, manage or maneuveraround. If you don’t feel safe in your environment, how can you
expect you and yours to grow and flourish?
Keywords: Concerns with survival. The endeavor to achievemental, physical or emotional well-being or peace. Noise and
other irritants that make life difficult. Looking out for the safety
and security of one’s children, home or creative ventures. Feelingunsafe. Conditions being insecure and unpredictable. Havingnowhere to rest.
The Caution: Mess and rubbish left around. Not being preparedto compromise or cohabit. People not being able to live together.Fouling of one’s nest. Things are being done “for your own good”regardless of what you want. Noise driving people out. Leases running out.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 19
Just as there’s garbage thatpollutes the Potomac River,
there is garbage pollutingour culture. We need anEnvironmental ProtectionAgency to clean it up.
Patrick Buchanan
It is an ill bird that fouls its ownnest.Romanian Proverb
SYLPH,n.An immaterial but
visible being that inhabited the
air when the air was an elementand before it was fatally
polluted with factory smoke,sewer gas and similar productsof civilization.
Ambrose Bierce
You must not lose faith inhumanity. Humanity is anocean; if a few drops of the
ocean are dirty, the ocean doesnot become dirty.
Mahatma Gandhi
Lies, injustice, and hypocrisy
are a part of every ordinarycommunity. Most peopleachieve a sort of protective
immunity, a kind of callousness,toward them. If they didn't, theycouldn't endure.Nella Larsen

9-20: IN WINTER PEOPLE ARE CUTTING
ICE FROM A FROZEN POND FOR
SUMMER USE
Commentary: ‘In Winter People Are Cutting Ice From a FrozenPond for Summer Use’ speaks of the value of planning ahead sopeople can have their needs provided for. Food, water, materials,all kinds of provisions may be more available some times than atothers and it is sensible to ensure supply of what will be needed
in the future.
Oracle: It may be necessary to take into account the reality ofseasonal fluctuations and the resulting times of scarcity. ThisSymbol shows the importance of thinking about what will beneeded or useful in the future. Or at least, making the bestpossible use of available materials to provide what is needed whenit is needed. Storage of things, or adaptations of available materialsfor a “rainy day” can ensure that life will be easier to manage. Thiscan point to storing food, water, money, or other types of goods.
Money can be saved by having a savings plan for retirement.Things such as pension funds and savings can be a good ideaas there is no way of knowing exactly what your resources will
be later in life. By saving some kind of resource, and allowing
for shifts in time and seasonal variations, you'll have what youneed. Also, making building repairs and renovations to allow forfluctuations in the weather or for varying atmospheric changes
can also lead to an increased level of safety and comfort. Watchto see if you have lost touch with your emotions by creating anicy barrier to future possibilities or eventualities. Also, someone
may be working toward appropriating or plundering someoneelse’s resources or savings. Any threats to future happiness orsuccess can be overcome without great difficulty, just a littleawareness, planning and action.
Keywords: Overcoming difficulties ahead of time through creativesolutions to problems. Strategies for survival in harder times.Stocking up and storing supplies. Savings and funds. Pensionplans. Retirement plans. Work and renovation. Planning forchanges in external or internal realities. Seeing shortages ahead
of time. Snow. Ice. Freezing conditions. Divorce settlements.
The Caution: Stoic acceptance of difficulties. Not seeing aheadof the times. Failing to plan for the future and just hoping that
it will work out. Sitting on your hands instead of working for
future possibilities. People storing up hurts or insults for later.Extortion.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 20
It wasn’t raining when Noah
built the ark.Howard Ruff
The rich man has his ice in thesummer and the poor man getshis in the winter.Scottish Proverb
Some people are makingsuch thorough plans for rainydays that they aren't enjoyingtoday’s sunshine.William Feather
Discover a well before you are
thirsty.
Chinese Proverb
A penny saved is a penny earned.Proverb
For age and want save whileyou may:no morning sun lasts
a whole day.Romanian Proverb
They that have got a good store
of butter may lay it thick ontheir bread.Romanian Proverb
If I had 8 hours to chop downa tree, I'd spend 6 sharpeningmy axe.Abraham Lincoln
In the depth of winter, I finally learned that within me therelay an invincible summer.Albert Camus

9-21: A CHILD AND A DOG WEARING
BORROWED EYEGLASSES
Commentary: ‘A Child and a Dog Wearing Borrowed Eyeglasses”shows play, impersonations and free-flowing perceptions of funand enjoyment with others. The ‘Eyeglasses’ can symbolizeintelligence or a thoughtful nature and by wearing them one cangive the impression of having these attributes. ‘A Child and a Dog’wearing the ‘Eyeglasses’ shows that the ‘Child’, who may be you orsomeone else in the situation, does not care what the ‘Eyeglasses’are all about. By giving the ‘Eyeglasses’ to the ‘Dog’, the ‘Child’shows that he doesn’t know, or worry about, what intelligence -or wisdom truly are. For the moment, he wants them to act likegrown-ups, seemingly smart and in control of their lives
Oracle: Perhaps someone is pretending to be more in control
or smarter than they are, or is this a situation of innocent play?Whatever the situation, this can work to make a consciousnessshift. By changing both your appearance and your perceptions,you can create some new understanding of your dreams, orunderstanding of how life can be, and it can help you to growinto it. People in this situation may have no idea where they areheaded in life, or what they are doing with it now, but, with someplay, some fun and light relief can be had in the process. Look to
see whether someone is trying to fool you with appearances orby inappropriate action or confusing behavior. Make sure thateveryone is looking at things through the right “lenses” in order to
be able to see what’s really going on. “Looking through” and into
things can reveal layers of meaning that you wouldn’t otherwiseobserve. Eyestrain can occur, especially if one doesn’t want to
see what’s actually going on, or desires a pretend scenario ratherthan facing reality.
Keywords: Emulation leading to actualization. The rewards ofmake-believe. Dog obedience classes and training. Pantomimes.Dealing with life through play or fantasy. Difficulty inunderstanding each other. The perception each has of the other.Spontaneous and carefree creativity. Cartooning and clowning.Having the “eyes” to see. Glasses of all kinds.
The Caution: Deliberately fooling with false impressions. Takingon masks to hide real intentions. The “blind leading the blind”.Pretending to be something that one isn’t. Not seeing people
or things for who, what or how they really are. Getting lost inabstractions. Goofing around too much. Play-acting to avoid thetruth. Not having the eyes to see.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 21
Rose-colored glasses are nevermade in bifocals. Nobody wantsto read the small print in dreams.Ann Landers
The dog is ayes animal. Very
popular with people who can’t
afford a yes man.
Robertson Davies
Study hard and you might growup to be President. But let’s faceit: Even then, you'll never make
as much money as your dog.
George Bush—after learningMillie, his dog, made $889,176in book royalties
Man is the only animal thatlearns by being hypocritical. He
pretends to be polite and then,eventually, he becomes polite.Jean Kerr
In our society those who are inreality superior in intelligence
can be accepted by their fellows
only if they pretend they are not.Marya Mannes
The only good in pretendingis the fun we get out of
fooling ourselves that we foolsomebody.Booth Tarkington
There’s none so blind as thosewho won't see.Old Saying

9-22: A CHINESE LAUNDRY
Commentary: A ‘Chinese Laundry’ is pictured. The ‘ChineseLaundry’ was once a place where a lot of the work was donelaboriously by hand in cramped and difficult conditions, and forlong hours. The Chinese did the work that other people did notwant to do, indeed, would often refuse to do. There was often
a sense of alienation which was made worse by language andcultural barriers. Although the wages were low, people wouldwork hard side-by-side, not asking for much, but being glad ofthe opportunity to make an honest day’s wage for a good day’s
work. There was also the opportunity to make a life in the
“new world”, in America. In those early days, and even today,
discrimination was often directed towards foreign people who
worked in menial occupations. However, if they withdrew their
labor, whole sections of the community would collapse
Oracle: You may find that you, are not being taken seriously and
are expected to perform in a stereotypical way. You may alsohave closed your own mind to other options for employment, or
your life’s work, that could be more rewarding to you and yourcommunity. Be careful not to shut yourself away in a situationthat will end up binding you to it. Make sure that you aren’t
putting yourself, or others, in a box that they can’t escape from.
This Symbol can bring all sorts of prejudices to the surface, be
they social, racial or otherwise. This can also picture a situationwhere a few people are working closely together, speaking thesame language. Even in this there can be alienation and loneliness.Remember to perform everyday tasks with reverence and see howit can transform your feelings and experience of life. Assessing
how “clean” your act is may bring surprising results. Further, howmuch do you need to clean up for everyone around you?
Keywords: Restrictive expectations. Relations with others
because of social duty. Performing tasks. Mediocrity, or the fearof it. Washing machines and dryers. Money and other laundering.Laws and legislation based on social and racial inequality. Issuesof belonging. Cleaning up for others. The search for purity.Institutions that inhibit individuality. Convents. Stereotypingpeople. Work and the rewards it should bring.
The Caution: Giving in to prejudice. Self-inflicted sense ofinferiority that can lead to missed opportunities for relating.
Feeling trapped with no way out. Not being taken seriously.
Doing menial jobs with little reward or real return. Slave labor.Lack of individual identity. Shutters to keep the world out.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 22
I believe you are your work.
Don't trade the stuff of your life,time, for nothing more than
dollars. That’s a rotten bargain.
Rita Mae Brown
Big jobs usually go to the menwho prove their ability tooutgrow small ones.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
To open a business is very easy;to keep it open is very difficult.Chinese Proverb
I founded Wang Laboratories
...to show that Chinese
could excel at things otherthan running laundries andrestaurants.An Wang
The Chinese use two brush
strokes to write the word
crisis.’One brush strokestands for danger; the otherfor opportunity. !n a crisis, beaware of the danger — butrecognize the opportunity.
Richard M. Nixon
An income tax form is like a
laundry list—either way you
lose your shirt.
Fred Allen
The world is full of willingpeople; some willing to work,
the rest willing to let them.Robert Frost

9-23: A GROUP OF IMMIGRANTS
FULFILLING THE REQUIREMENTS
FOR ENTERING A NEW COUNTRY
Commentary: ‘A Group of Immigrants Fulfilling the Requirements
for Entering a New Country’ shows people who are leaving theold behind in order to pursue a new life in a new place. They may
be happy, hopeful and jubilant about this voyage to the unfamiliaror they may be somewhat sad, bedraggled and lost, it all depends
on their individual circumstances. They may find themselves
being assessed by others to see how “worthy” they are of being
accepted into this ‘New Country’; just what are their qualificationsfor acceptance?
Oracle: This is a time of new possibility, the hope for better things
and a new way of life. You may find yourself preparing to venture
into new territory for the promise that is offered. There may need
to be adjustments about the way you communicate your thoughts
and ideas. Be receptive to this new way of life, as you'll learn alot. Learning how to communicate will help you to succeed inthis new territory, whether this be a new home, new country,new job, new relationship, etc., and can help dispel any feelings ofalienation and loneliness. Perhaps there is a need to let go of past
experiences or people in order to move on in life. Letting go of
the hindering and stifling elements of the past will help transporthope into the “new world” that is opening up. How do you feelin this new environment? Do you feel strangely yet completely at
home, or do you feel like a fish out of water? Give thanks for what
is being released from the past and prepared for the new to come.It’s bound to be challenging, yet rewarding!
Keywords: Reorientation of selfhood. Needing to change thingsin order to accept a new reality. The necessity of learning new
languages or customs to fit in. Visas, passports, papers. Illegalimmigrants. Boat people. Customs officials and regulations.
Baggage and luggage. Shipping. Qualifications and certifications.Identification. Asylum. Immigration officers. Papers and
qualifications that include or exclude. Refugees. Laws. Borders. Ellis
Island. Throwing away the known in pursuit of the unknown.
The Caution: Entering new situations with inflexible traditions.Issues of social or racial prejudice, or the suspicion of it. Red
tape getting in the way of enjoying life. Those not living up to
requirements. Not getting successfully through the paperwork.Being untrue to oneself in order to be accepted. Being rejectedor sent back.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 23
All adventures, especially intonew territory, are scary.Sally Ride
Remember that happiness is away of travel, not a destination.Roy Goodman
Here at our sea-washed,sunset gates shall standamighty woman with a torch,whose flame Is the imprisonedlightning, and her name Motherof Exiles.Emma Lazarus
Give me your tired, your poor,your huddled masses yearningto breathe free.Emma Lazarus—Verseinscribed on the Statue of Liberty.
I would place all the Indians ofNevada on ships in our harbor,take them to New York andland them there as immigrants,that they might be received
with openarms...and thus
placed beyond the necessity of
reservation help.Sarah Winnemucca
A map of the world that does
not include Utopia is not wortheven glancing at, for it leavesout the one country at whichHumanity is always landing.
Oscar Wilde

9-24: A BLUEBIRD,A SIGN OF GOOD LUCK
AND HAPPINESS, IS STANDING AT
THE DOOR OF THE HOUSE
Commentary: ‘A Bluebird, A Sign Of Good Luck and Happiness, IsStanding At The Door Of The House’. The ‘Bluebird’ is often seenas an omen of good fortune and ‘Happiness’, and it is pictured‘Standing at the Door of the House’ which shows ‘Good Luck’ iscoming into ‘The House’ or headed your way in some sense.
Oracle: You may soon feel that you are in a time of natural,
positive, good luck. Can you see and feel it? Responding with yourhigher hopes for a happy and productive life will ensure that the‘Bluebird of Good Luck and Happiness’ knows where to settle.Positive attitudes and hope for the future will see you movingforward unhindered, and these becoming reality. Observing
birds in nature or in your own environment can bring reminder
of how wonderful life can be. Birds are seen to be agents of
spiritual messages and watching them go about their lives andhearing their calls can bring a sense of stronger connectednessto our everyday lives. Do you see or hear the ‘Blue Bird?’ If you
have not paid much attention or noticed them before you maybe surprised by just how many birds are around you. Are youallowing happiness to come knocking at your ‘Door’? If you can't
feel it yet, meditate on the Symbol of the ‘Bluebird’ bringing‘Good Luck and Happiness’ as life is sure to shift in some way.You could hang up a picture of a ‘Bluebird’, or some other bird,
as a token of your willingness to receive this ‘Good Luck andHappiness’. This ‘Bluebird’ may actually be a person who turnsup in your life, or is already known to you. How lucky do you
feel? How content with your life are you? Bring happiness intoyour home, take a moment to count your blessings—see howblessed you truly are.
Keywords: Calmness and rewards. Promise (or promises) of‘Happiness’. Love and happiness available by acknowledging
its presence. Real estate, house boundaries. Reminders of joy.
Cottages and picket fences. Waiting for invitations to enter. Omensof good luck. Blessings. Front doors and back doors.
The Caution: Denying happiness or good news. Feeling that thegrass is always greener somewhere else. Putting on false showsof happiness for all to see. Thinking that buying things will makeone’s life happier. Wanting what’s not available.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 24
Faith is a bluebird you see fromafar. It’s real and sure as the firstevening star. You can’t touch itor buy it or wrap it up tight. Butit’s there just the same makingthings turn out right.Margery Sharp
Spread love everywhere you
go: first of all in your own house.
Give love to your children, toyour wife or husband, to anext-door neighbor... Let noone ever come to you withoutleaving better or happier.Mother Teresa
When one door of happinesscloses another door opens, butoften we look so long at theclosed door that we don’t seethe one that has opened.Helen Keller
Hold fast to dreams, For ifdreams die Life is a broken-winged bird That cannot fly.Langston Hughes
Good fences make good
neighbors.
American Proverb
I am a marvelous housekeeper.Every time I leave aman I keep
his house.
Zsa Zsa Gabor

9-25: A CHUBBY LITTLE RICH BOY RIDES
UPON A HOBBYHORSE
Commentary: ‘A Chubby Little Rich Boy Rides Upon a Hobbyhorse’,Webster's dictionary defines a ‘Hobby Horse’ as “1) a strong activehorse, of middle size 2) A stick, often with the head or figure of ahorse, on which boys make believe to ride 3) A subject or plan upon
which one is constantly setting off; a favorite and ever-recurringtheme of discourse, thought, or effort; that which occupies one’sattention unduly, or to the weariness of others; a ruling passion.” ‘A
Chubby Little Rich Boy’ shows a young child that has all his material
needs met; he’s well fed and looked after. He ‘Rides Upon his Hobby
Horse’, which could be anything from a real horse to a stick horse.
Presumably he enjoys the fun and the motion—perhaps it soothes
him or keeps him occupied when he has nothing else to do. Perhapsthere are other things he could be doing, such as school lessons ordomestic chores, but he’s probably not thinking about those rightnow. Does he enjoy what he’s doing or is it that he’s gotten into thehabit of being on his ‘Hobby Horse’? If he’s just started playing, he
may soon discover that he can’t actually go anywhere with this “toy”as it’s very limited in its range or motion. Indeed, if it is a “rockinghorse’, it has no forward motion, rather it continually goes over the
same ground, backwards and forwards.
Oracle: Somebody in this situation may feel that they are doing what
is necessary, however it is probably not the real thing, but more ofatraining session perhaps a practice run. Are you, or someone else,doing something over and over? Perhaps there’s a feeling of beingbored with all the big plans and big endeavors that go nowhere
and largely come to nothing. Still, this may be a time of learning.
Looking upon life’s experiences as a lesson will help you to move
onto the next stage of the situation. Keep up the practice and the play,
one day you'll probably have to prove yourself in a more rigorous,demanding situation.
Keywords: Hobbies and their pleasures. Unrestrained, imaginativeplay that can lead to truly wonderful creations, physically, emotionally
and spiritually. Protected practice. Having to have one’s sexual needsfulfilled before one loses energy. Exercise, doing something because
one can. Constantly going off on distracting schemes. Boys and their
toys. Unrestrained passion.
The Caution: Someone spoilt and shallow. Feeling that one can takeon anything without thought of the actual consequences. Playingwhen one should be more serious about life. Not doing one’s work,avoiding it by doing ‘fun’ things instead. Having no friends to playwith.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 25
Do not handicap your childrenby making their lives easy.Lazarus Long
Nothing is so hard for those whoabound in riches to conceive
how others can be in want.
Jonathan Swift
It is amazing how quickly the
kids learn to drive a car, yetare unable to understand thelawnmower, snow blower, orvacuum cleaner.Ben Bergor
In this era of affluence and of
permissiveness, we have, in all
but cultural areas, bred a nation
of over-privileged youngsters,
saturated with vitamins,television and plastic toys.Judith Crist
Well, you know when you'rerocking in a rocking chair,andyou go so far that you almost
fall over backwards, but at the
last instant you catch yourself?
That's how I feel all the time.Stephen Wright
A hobby a day keeps thedoldrums away.Phyllis Mcginley

9-26: A FLAG-BEARER IN A BATTLE
Commentary: ‘A Flag Bearer in a Battle’ is seen. ‘Flag-Bearers’ in‘Battle’, in the old days, were the ones who were at the front of anadvancing troop of soldiers, ‘Bearing’ the ‘Flag’ of their countryor regiment. They were unarmed, therefore defenseless, and theywere “upfront” and obvious, and as such, were an easy targetfor those “on the other side”. Taking the other’s ‘Flag’ was seen
as a victory; hence the ‘Flag-Bearer’ was particularly vulnerableto attack. However, having the responsibility of being the ‘FlagBearer’ was seen as an honored and well respected position.
Oracle: Nowadays, the ‘Flag-Bearer’ can be anybody with anissue to stand up for, to represent or promote. This issue canbe anything from a worthy cause, such as the homeless or thedisadvantaged, to political issues right through to wanting topromote or advertise something. All of these may attract some
flack from outside pressure. You may feel that achievements have
been made that should be acknowledged or respected in some
way. It could be that duties and responsibilities have been piling
up on you lately, and the struggle has not been easy. Don’t worry,
though, although the people around you are probably busy, they
are most likely noticing your leadership abilities. You could bethe linchpin of the whole situation It takes guts to get out front,putting yourself directly in the firing line, but it may be time for
you, or somebody near you, to go for it and stand up for what youbelieve. Being willing to be upfront and “out there” in the line offire can bring its own kind of rewards. However, it may be thatyou are more familiar with being the one “up front”, rather thanbeing an actual fighter or warrior and one day you may have to
drop your standard (your ‘Flag’) and pick up a tool or a weapon.Look to any consequences of what it is that you’re taking on and
see how they stack up. Are things likely to work out, or are youpushing others to have to defend themselves.
Keywords: Having the courage of convictions. Standing up forideals. Representing one’s collective in a worthy cause. Carryingthe standard or the ‘Flag’. David and Goliath. Being the messenger.Advocates. Ensigns. Leadership. Self sacrifice. Fighting for politicalideals. Flag waving.
The Caution: The sacrificial lamb. Overzealous idealism. Emptyshows of courage. The scapegoat. Always being ready to go into
battle. Violence. Fanaticism. Stepping out of line. An inability to
keep quiet. Not knowing when to back off.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 26
It is better to die on your feetthan to live on your knees.
Euripides
Usually when people are sad,they don’t do anything. Theyjust cry over their condition. But
when they get angry, they bring
about a change.
Malcolm X
Courage is resistance to fear,mastery of fear—not absenceof fear.
Mark Twain
Real courage is when you know
you're licked before you begin,
but you begin anyway andsee it through no matter what.Harper Lee
Not the glittering weapon fightsthe fight, but rather the hero’s
heart.Proverb
Those who are prepared todie for any cause are seldom
defeated.Jawaharlal Nehru
‘Dying for an idea,’ again,
sounds well enough, but whynot let the idea die instead ofyou?Wyndham Lewis

9-27: THE SCULPTOR’S VISION IS SLOWLY
BUT SURELY TAKING FORM
Commentary: ‘The Sculptor’s Vision’ shows an image of somedesired shape or outcome, a picture that is projected out ontothe world through creative work. The fact that the ‘Vision IsSlowly But Surely Taking Form’ shows that slow and sometimespainstaking detail is needed to work towards something that istruly worth the time and effort.
Oracle: You are in a situation where you are able to manipulatethings or events into something of value and lasting integrity.There is the ability, or the need, to project shape and ‘Form’ ontomaterials or situations to have a desired outcome; to have the‘Vision’ actually be allowed to ‘Take Form’. Who and what we are
in our more private moments right through to our public livesis largely shown through the life we manifest, the reality we see
before us and create. This Symbol can indicate the changing of
one’s body shape or gaining or losing weight so the appearancecan fit the vision that one has in mind. Whatever ‘The Vision’ is,it is ‘Surely Taking Form’, and you'll be able to see clues to how
it’s shaping up in the situation facing you. The work that needs
to be done, or the desired outcome, is finally able to take shape.However, it is a good idea to observe and decide whether the‘Form’ that you want is actually what is eventuating or in the
pipeline. Attention and work on the situation at hand will ensurea final outcome of one’s objectives. Be especially careful to askfor what you truly want or need. Is the 'Form' that is evolving
truly resonant with who you are? Concentrate on what you want
and don't deviate from the 'Vision' as your work could be spoiltwith one wrong stroke of the brush. Follow the ‘Vision’ and becreative; picture an outcome and watch it materialize.
Keywords: Concrete creative manifestation. The Godhead. This isthe Symbol of the Galactic Center. Creating the ‘Vision’. Evolution.Things going from crude beginnings all the way up to concreteoutcomes. Sculptors and sculptures. Molding shapes and forms.Seeing and visualizing things ahead of their time. Sticking with the creation.
The Caution: Disregard of others’ needs. Unnatural focus on thegoal. Being one-eyed about the outcome. Watching a situation,or one’s life “crystallize” into unbending shapes. Having one’sdesigns set in stone. Sitting back and thinking that things willjust magically happen without any effort being made. Others
believing they know what you should do or be.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 27
It may be that our role on this
planet is not to worship God
but to create him.Arthur C. Clarke
Art is not a mirror to reflect
the world, but ahammer withwhich to shape it.Vladimir Mayakovsky
A man paints with his brainsand not with his hands,
Michelangelo
Every separate thought takesshape and becomes visible incolor and form.
Liu Hua-Yang
The universe is one of God'sthoughts.
Johann Christoph Friedrichvon Schiller
If you do not find yourselfbeautiful yet, act as does thecreator of a statue that is to
be made beautiful: he cutsaway here, he smoothes there,
he makes this line lighter, this
other purer, until a lovely face
has grown upon his work,Plotinus
We must become the changewe want to see.Mahatma Gandhi

9-28: A SPLENDIDLY BUILT BRIDGE,A
HERITAGE OF UNKNOWN AGES,
STILL SPANS THE BEAUTIFUL AND
WILDLY PRIMITIVE STREAM
Commentary: A ‘Splendidly Built Bridge’ is shown. It is a ‘Heritageof Unknown Ages’. The ‘Bridge’ implies strength, dependability;
passages, links and shortcuts across things that would otherwise
divide and keep people and places apart. This Symbol representsa ‘Bridge’ that was ‘Built’ long ago, but is still of use and benefitto all that use it.
Oracle: You may need to find ‘A Bridge’ between your fresh,
energetic aspirations, thoughts and emotions and constructivethought and activity. Traditional ways of approaching things may
lead to the best solutions now. It may be that the ‘Bridge’ was
developed by the experiences of many generations. It could also
reflect inherent qualities carried through from history, perhaps past
lives. Whatever, you are able to span different levels of awareness
with a ‘Splendidly Built Bridge’. If you feel disconnected, knowthat you can be confident, restiing in the reassurance that the
‘Bridge’ is still there. The ‘Bridge’ is an ever-present capacity that
is a gift to you from the universe. However, there may be a “toll”to be paid for going across the ‘Bridge’. If so, is this journey (thisevent, conversation or habit) an outworn one? Is there a continualreversing of direction or position—or is there movement and linksbeing forged in one sure direction? Ifyou don’t know how to raiseyour level of awareness or intuition into the conscious realm, beconfident that you really do know intuitively. Thoughts or emotions
can act as a link or a barrier between our soul centered inspiration
and the source of higher awareness. The ‘Wildly Primitive Stream’is a symbol of those emotions, but no matter how far back ordeeply active our emotional landscape is, the ‘Bridge’ can take us
safely across.
Keywords: Enduring elements from past traditions providing linkswith the modern day. Reverence for things of worth that stand asreminders of yesterday. Linking people, places and things with
clarity. Connections with the “old country”, or past lives. Beautifuland inspiring landscapes. Getting in touch with people. Everrepeating journeys. Passages across the water. Permanence.
The Caution: Sticking with old, outworn methods, with no newideas. Themes of buying the “Brooklyn Bridge”. Continually having
to tread the tried-and-true path without deviating.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 28
There is nothing that makes itsway more directly to the soulthan beauty.Joseph Addison
We are told never to cross a bridge
till we come to it,but this world isowned by men who have “crossedbridges”in their imagination far
ahead of the crowd.Speakers Library
The bridges you cross beforeyou come to them are overrivers that aren't there.Gene Brown
Pass the bridge that yourkinsmen have passed.Azerbaijani Proverb
My mother, religious Negro,proud of having wadedthrough a storm, is, veryobviously a sturdy bridge that |
have crossed over on.
Toni Cade Bambara
If you destroy a bridge, be sureyou can swim. -Swahili Proverb
We cross our bridges when we
come to them and burn thembehind us, with nothing toshow for our progress except amemory of the smell of smoke,and a presumption that once
our eyes watered.
Tom Stoppard

9-29: A FAT BOY MOWING THE LAWN
Commentary: ‘A Fat Boy Mowing the Lawn’ shows someonegetting up and doing the necessary chores and to improve theappearance around the home. The ‘Fat Boy’ can be the “kid” whohas everything available to him, but still, for the moment at least,has to do what his family and society says rather than what he
may prefer to be doing. As he is said to be a ‘Fat Boy’, perhaps he’snot used to having to do or contribute very much, mostly layingaround watching television or playing computer games. The ‘FatBoy’, here has to learn how to use machinery, to deal with thingssuch as oil, petrol and spark plugs. It may be that he’s not had to
dirty his hands very often with jobs or menial chores.
Oracle: In order to remain socially acceptable amongst the peopleand in the neighborhood where we live, we regularly have to trimand clean up our environment. For whatever reason, it has to beaccepted that everyday chores are important and necessary. Taken
to extremes, however, this can lead to having to keep up with theJones’. How well does the “appearance” of this situation look? Isthere a need for maintenance and care to put on a better show andimpress everybody for society’s sake? You may be paying moreattention to appearances than you are to those things that others
don’t see. The “front yard” may be all cleaned up and looking neat
and tidy, but how does the “back yard” look? Many people are
fooled by how things appear, but there is usually an unsettlingfeeling that everything is not quite right. Perhaps someone hasto pay some price by proving themselves? There can be a feelingof having to do chores that don’t truly reflect what one is capableof or desires to do. Is there something that you’ve been going todo for years, but haven't gotten around to? Jobs, chores, tasks andduties need to be done by someone. Have people been asking andasking for these things to be done? There may be an upside; with
all the exercise there may be a possibility of losing a little weight
and getting fit.
Keywords: Superficial show. Things looking respectable, and“right”. Trying to lose weight through physical activity. Coming
to grips with mechanical tools. Perspiring through effort. Trainingthe youngsters to do the chores. Maintenance. Spare parts. Sparkplugs. Doing odd jobs. Signs of affluence. Laborers. Hired hands.
The Caution: Pushing social respectability, avoiding something.Not wanting to help around the house. The “lounge-lizard”. Not
dealing with the reality of life. Having too many jobs. Not gettingoff one’s backside. Ignoring the nagging. Barging into other's space.Making a lot of noise. Incompetent helpers.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 29
A perfect summer day is when
the sun is shining, the breeze is
blowing, the birds are singing,and the lawn mower is broken.James Dent
The lazy man who goes toborrow a spade says, “| hope |will not find one.”
Malagasy Proverb
The grass is always greener overthe septic tank.Erma Bombeck
It is amazing how quickly the
kids learn to drive a car, yetare unable to understand the
lawnmower, snow blower, or
vacuum cleaner.Ben Bergor
There are two kinds of men whonever amount to much—thosewho cannot do what they aretold and those who can donothing else.Cyrus H. K Curtis
The fellow that owns his ownhome is always coming out of ahardware store.Kin Hubbard
Laziness travels so slowly that
poverty soon overtakes him.Benjamin Franklin

9-30: THE POPE BLESSING THE FAITHFUL
Commentary: ‘The Pope’ is an image of someone who has an exaltedposition and operates with a high sense of authority, hopefully with
spiritual awareness and love. The word ‘Pope’ comes from the Latin
“papa” and the Greek “pappas”. He is dispensing ‘Blessings’ on
his people; those who believe in him, his position and his cause.
‘Blessings’ can also come from worshipping a higher power withpeople of like mind. Dispensing the rewards of faith upon peoplewho are committed and eager leads to an enlightening of thosewho receive, and also those who do the ‘Blessing’. A major voicewill be heard—who is the spokesperson that will be heard by thecollective?
Oracle: There is often a need to create or assign someone as thephysical representation of what is believed on the spiritual plane.
This person of authority performs actions that give our beliefs a
feeling of reality and draw the community together. When you dothings that are true to your inner self there is a feeling of connectionto a higher power. This feeling is like a ‘Blessing’ and is a reminder ofthe spiritual purpose of life. The situation or event that is the center
of your question may be in need of just such a ‘Blessing’. Ifyou are
one of the “worthy ones”, you will probably receive a sign that youare on the true path. If the question relates to a group situation, itmay be that you or someone in the group needs to take on the roleof spiritual representative, be a ‘Pope’, and reward the group withyour words of wisdom and experience. That will help maintaintheir focus, motivation and faith in what they are trying to achieve.
It may be important to show reverence and respect to others, as thiswill lead to rewards of their own. This can also represent someone
having a powerful memory. A noble or regal person will rememberthe faces and names of huge numbers of people who surround them.
It can feel like a 'Blessing' to be in their company.
Keywords: Rituals of reverence, blessings and worship. Sincereinterest in others. Being on the inside looking out or being on
the outside looking in. Recognizing the source of enormous innerriches. Rewards for loyalty. Seeking support or recognition. Eye-to-eye contact. Being remembered. Charisma and presence. Having anaudience with someone.
The Caution: Overwhelming political or spiritual rituals. Lust forpower. Negating, projecting and transferring one’s shadow onto others.Not taking responsibility for one’s actions. Begging people to dispensefavors. Sucking up to be accepted or recognized. Manipulating fordesired ends. Nervous reaction to power or position. Demanding
obedience. Lording it over people. Leaving people out that don’t
measure up or conform. Having people at one’s beck and call.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Sagittarius 30
A single conversation with awise man is better than ten yearsof study.
Chinese Proverb
What I'm looking for is a blessingthat’s notin disguise.Kitty O'Neill Collins
It is one of the blessings of oldfriends that you can afford to bestupid with them.Ralph Waldo Emerson
You must pay the price ifyouwish to secure the blessing.
Andrew Jackson
I would have made a good pope.Richard Nixon
To err is human, to forgive, divine.Alexander Pope
See everything, overlook a great
deal, correct a little.Pope John XXIII
A faithful friend is a strongdefense;And he that hath found
him hath found a treasure.Louisa May Alcott
A true friend is the greatest of
all blessings, and that whichwe take the least care of all toacquire.Francois de La Rochefoucauld

10-1: AN INDIAN CHIEF CLAIMS
RECOGNITION AND POWER FROM
THE ASSEMBLED TRIBE
Commentary: ‘An Indian Chief Claims Recognition and Power Fromthe Assembled Tribe’ shows someone in a position of authority,standing strong, staking their ‘Claim’ and place amongst the peoplethat he or she leads or represents. This is a Symbol associated withthe Jesus story. Jesus’ karmic lesson was to rise above the crowd;to claim power in situations, places and with people; and to accept
any consequences that such a ‘Claim’ could lead to.
Oracle: There are leadership issues here. Sometimes we need to
rise to the occasion and take charge, and this is most likely oneof those times. This can lead to a struggle for control. You may bechallenged to remind those around you of your leadership qualities
and your ability to be strong, reliable and accountable. There’s the
need to stand up in front of others and be counted as someone whohas what it takes. As long as nobody is “lording it over” others, lifecan operate in a smoother manner, with everyone understandingtheir place in the scheme of things. We all have to find the courageto stand up and exhibit a show of strength now and then. However,
there can be the flip side: are those above you reminding youof the lesser position you occupy in the scheme of things? Youcan find your own internal authority by believing in yourself, by‘Claiming Recognition and Power’ and acknowledging your nobility
and courage. There can be challenging events happening in theexternal world, a battle of wills perhaps, but if you stand strong andfirm in your inner belief in yourself, you can come out victoriouswith a greater sense of authority radiating out to those aroundyou. People will take you more seriously. Always know when tolisten to and give way to the rights of others and you'll be given astronger position in society.
Keywords: Assuming authority and the need for it. Benevolencebestowed. Winning by charisma and strength of numbers. Findinga true sense of place. Signs that one should be in charge. Stakingone’s claim. The ‘Claim of Recognition’. Respect. Having to standup or stand out in the crowd. Having the charisma of leadership.Consolidating power. Popularity contests.
The Caution: Power tripping and struggles. Over-inflated viewsof one’s self. The continual need to quieten power battles. Beingchallenged by those left and right. Demanding attention and that
others follow orders. Taking over. Selfish and ego-driven. Toomany chiefs.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 1
Self-reverence, self-knowledge,
self-control. These three alone
lead life to sovereign power.Alfred Tennyson
To lead the people walk behind
them.Lao-Tzu
A lot of young girls have looked
to their career paths and have
said they‘ like to be chief.
There's been a change in thelimits people see.
Wilma Pearl Mankiller
There are two things peoplewant more than sex andmoney—recognition andpraise.Mary Kay Ash
lf your sctions inspire othersto dream more, learn more, domore and become more, youare a leader.
John Quincy Adams
He is not fit to command others
that cannot command himself. Proverb
There are too many chiefs andnot enough indians.
Proverb
There are no small parts, onlysmall actors.Proverb
Power corrupts; absolute power
corrupts absolutely.Proverb

10-2: THREE STAINED-GLASS WINDOWS
IN A GOTHIC CHURCH, ONE
DAMAGED BY WAR
Commentary: ‘Three Stained-Glass Windows in a Gothic Church,One Damaged by War’ pictures the need to stay strong on every
level under the barrage of some type of bombardment. A ‘Church’
is normally a place of safety and refuge, but ‘War’ has broken
through its divine barrier and caused ‘Damage’, or some injury,that is much bigger than just a broken ‘Window’. One of the threecorners of unity, in this case the one of love, is ‘Damaged’ andcompromised by the aggressive warring nature of mankind.
Oracle: With the shattering of the ‘Window’, there is often a lossof faith, hope and trust. Someone may have previously felt safe
in the confines of their life and suddenly a “bomb hits”, breaking
and demolishing some aspect of their usually safe and secure life.This situation may take considerable time to heal, although if thestructure is sound, fixing the ‘Window’ (the place where the lightgets in) can be done relatively quickly. Still, even with the best ofthoughts, emotions and intentions, it might take months or yearsto truly heal the devastating effect that’s been unleashed. In fact,the actual ‘Damage’ that this Symbol implies may have startedlong ago. There is a need to get it repaired and things often needhealing on the emotional and physical levels. Hypnotherapy,psychoanalysis and past life regression may reveal pain, injuryand trauma that are holding one back from being able to accept or
give love. Acceptance of love can lead to healing on many levels.
Love is often the main issue that needs to be projected outwards
as well as accepted inwards.
Keywords: Seeking sanctuary. Careless aggression where loveshould be. Religious or philosophical differences that spark off
problems. Fears of being “under attack” whilst in the spotlight.Sorrow and despair over losses. Loss of faith. ‘Windows’ that arecracked, broken or smashed. Cracks and shattering. Rescue ofendangered holy places. Loss of love through harsh circumstance.
The need for repair.
The Caution: Feeling disconnected from the reality of what’sgoing on. Fearfulness OR fearlessness, when one should be
careful. Signs of rubble all around. Aggression between people.
Burning down churches. A lack of safe places. Being shell-shocked
and ravaged. Cold breezes entering sacred spaces. Psychologicaland emotional scars. Nowhere to run, nowhere to hide.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 2
As a vessel is known by thesound, whether it be cracked or
not,so men are proved by their
speeches whether they be wise
or foolish.Demosthenes
People are like stained-glasswindows. They sparkle andshine when the sun is out, butwhen the darkness sets in, their
true beauty is revealed only
if there is a light from within.
Elizabeth Kubler-Ross
There is nothing fiercer thana failed artist. The energyremains, but, having no outlet,it implodes in a great black fartof rage which smokes up all theinner windows of the soul.Erica Jong
Beautiful light is born of
darkness, so the faith that
springs from conflict is often the
strongest and the best.
R. Turnbull
Events unfold so unpredictably,so unfairly, human happinessdoes not seem to have beenincluded in the design of creation.
It is only we, with our capacityto love, that give meaning to the
indifferent universe.
Woody Allen
There is a crack, a crack ineverything. That's how the lightgets in.
Leonard Cohen

10-3: THE HUMAN SOUL, IN ITS
EAGERNESS FOR NEW EXPERIENCES,
SEEKS EMBODIMENT
Commentary: ‘The Human Soul, In Its Eagerness For NewExperiences, Seeks Embodiment’ is a Symbol of the soul’s
longing for self-expression. In our western calendar, this Symbolis highlighted on December 25 each year, on Christ’s birthday. Itreflects the Jesus story in many ways.
Oracle: This Symbol shows that a new level of consciousness
is about to reveal and express itself. Many parts of yourself are
seeking expression and ‘Embodiment’ and there may be a sense of‘Eagerness’ or urgency in the process. Something ‘New’ is beingborn, particularly something that’s coming from deep inside ofyou, and it can feel like nothing is going to stop it from achievingthis ‘Embodiment’. You may feel very open to the messages of
the world around you, as clues come through to show you howto go about ‘Embodying’ these ‘New Experiences’. There canbe unbounded enthusiasm, but it may take some time before
what you want can be brought into reality. At first, this is likely
to be a quiet time of inner contemplation and outer observance.
Regardless of your more immediate physical circumstances, thereis an evolution of understanding going on. This Symbol can pointto children wanting to come through into this life along withan unfurling of one’s creativity and projects into physical form.Whatever it represents, anew beginning of life or hope is wantingto come into conscious manifestation now. This Symbol often
brings up issues to do with writing and self-expression. It maybe a good idea to keep a diary or to write things down as ideaswill often just pour out. This situation may haave a fated quality,
with some extraordinary outcome just waiting to happen.
Keywords: Inner motivation leading to expansion. Jesus andhis disciples. Being “born” quickly. Manifesting one’s desireswithout concern for consequences. Being “born again”. Feelinglike a changed person. The need to drop into the body. Religious
and spiritual rebirth. Reincarnation. The urge to create. Writersand writing.
The Caution: Denying the growth that’s beckoning in favor
of social responsibility. Not leaving when perhaps one should.Having to seek permission to come through any “new gateway”.A loss of faith. Being obsessed about an ideal or idea. Feeling cast
adrift from one's reality.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 3
We do not believe in ourselvesuntil someone reveals that deepinside us is something valuable,worth listening to, worthy of
our trust, sacred to our touch.Once we believe in ourselveswe can risk curiosity, wonder,
spontaneous delight or any
experience that reveals the
human spirit.e.e. cummings
I count life just as stuff to try thesoul’s strength on.Robert Browning
God does not ask about ourability, but our availability.Anon
The act of writing is the act of
making soul, alchemy.Gloria Evangelina Anzaldua
The greatest human quest isto know what one must do
in order to become a humanbeing.Immanuel Kant
Variety is the soul of pleasure.Aphra Behn
To know what you preferinstead of humbly saying amento what the world tells you you
ought to prefer is to keep yoursoul alive.Robert Louis Stevenson

10-4: A GROUP OF PEOPLE ENTERINGA
CANOE FOR A JOURNEY BY WATER
Commentary: A ‘Group of People Entering a Canoe’ is a Symbolof people coming together to set off on a ‘Journey’. They mayalready know each other or they may come from many different
places, or from overseas. Regardless of where they’ve come from,
they are all ‘Entering' this 'Canoe’ for a ‘Journey By Water’.
Oracle: To embark on ‘a Journey By Water’ with a ‘Group of
People’ is to embark on a ‘Journey’ of emotional discovery. Peoplemay have differing views of what’s going on and everyone has tofully agree with where they’re going. In a ‘Canoe’, some people putin the effort of “paddling” whilst others are passengers, enjoying
the ride in their various ways. If every person participates to the
success of this endeavor, the ‘Journey’ can be swift and strong.
If all the effort is left to just a few, there can be an imbalance
of energy that could lead to resentment and even the failure ofthe mission. Hence, there can be issues over “who does what”.Depending on the sharing of the responsibilities, some membersmay be fatigued by the process whereas others will remain
fresh. This may not be fair, as some will have an advantageover others, which can lead to emotional problems, especiallyjealousy, impatience, bickering or dissatisfaction. However, withcooperation, there can be great success. If this is a personal
Journey’, then it is important that you remain balanced and don’toverexert yourself on the emotional or physical level. This mayalso be a time when divergent aspects of your personality cometogether to explore an emotional situation. Getting everybody “in
the same boat” can be a challenge here, whether it’s real people,or the various parts of your own thought processes. Cooperation,compromise and common goals will win the day.
Keywords: Cohesive effort, cooperation and coordination. Peoplecoming together with a shared goal in sight. Being continually onthe move. Feeling like one’s on a ‘Journey’ of destiny. People allpulling together. Canoes. Boats. Vehicles of discovery. Setting offon an adventure. Entering the unknown. Workshops. Unknowndestinations. Setting sail. Observing the weather. Yacht races.
The Caution: Uncoordinated energies. Not going along withanybody. Rocking the boat. The urge to get off midstream. Beingbored with close company. A lack of privacy or quiet time. Backseat drivers. No one navigating. Lack of a realistic itinerary.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 4
No member of a crew is praisedfor the rugged individuality ofhis rowing.Ralph Waldo Emerson
Only the guy who isn’t rowinghas time to rock the boat.Jean-Paul Sartre
...as one goes through life onelearns that ifyou don’t paddleyour own canoe, you don’tmove.Katharine Hepburn
A canoe does not know whois king. When it turns over,everyone gets wet.Malagasy Proverb
Plenty of folks are so contrarythat if they should fall into theriver, they would insist uponfloating upstream.Josh Billings
Everyone must row with theoars he has.Proverb
We may have all come on
different ships, but we’re in thesame boat now.
Martin Luther King, Jr.
If there is no wind, row.
Latin Proverb
We are not human beingson a spiritual journey. We arespiritual beings ona humanjourney.Stephen Covey

10-5: INDIANS—SOME ROWING A CANOE
WHILE OTHERS ARE DANCING A
WAR DANCE
Commentary: ‘Indians—Some Rowing a Canoe’ is an image of
people pulling and working together in a communal effort to dosomething or to get somewhere. The fact that some are ‘Dancinga War Dance’ may be the reason some are ‘Rowing a Canoe’ in
the first place. Perhaps they need to make a show of strength
and define their boundaries. My friend Dale O’Brien says of this
Symbol: “the purpose of the ‘War Dance’ is not merely to evokefrenzied anger, but to see a vision of the battle yet to come, amystical warrior’s preparation. It is as if the consciousness of the“in trance” dancing warrior is also at once in the warrior’s activity
(e.g. rowing a canoe).” Maybe they have to “row” through enemyterritory and are confronted by the prospect of an attack.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, some people will just wantto get on with the job and get somewhere fruitful whilst others
are seeking to act with aggression. It may be necessary to solvethings with a firm determination and vigilant approach to others.
Aggression isn’t ever really the answer. However, to make a showof one’s intentions and position, and the effort that one will go todefend it, may ultimately win the respect of those around. Who’sdoing the ‘War Dance’ in this situation? Is it you or another?Perhaps you take turns with each other, with everyone endingup either ‘Rowing’ or ‘Dancing a War Dance’. There may be anelement of the enjoyment of drama and getting people whipped
up. This can be exciting for a while, but can quickly becometiring or boring. As they say: “keep rowing, but row away fromthe rocks.”
Keywords: Some getting on with their lives whilst others are not.Vehicles of discovery versus arguing and bickering. Threats andintimidation. Making a show of power and mobility. Cooperationbringing release from difficulties. Mobilizing forces. Psychingoneself up. Group efforts. Traffic.
The Caution: Making one’s case whilst having to be continually onthe move. Being emotionally charged. Arguments and bickeringthat halt forward movement or growth. Intimidation. Moving
targets. Superficial shows of strength for display purposes. Makinga lot of noise. Pulling faces. Gestures that threaten. Accepting noopposition to progress. Aggression. Divergent motivations leadingto confusion. Road rage.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 5
He who rocks the boat seldom
has time to row it.Bryan Munro
There will never be an army ofperfectly nonviolent people. It. will be formed of those who willhonestly endeavor to observenonviolence.Mohandas Gandhi
Don't insult the alligator untilyou've crossed the river.Haitian Proverb
No man can paddle two canoes
at the same time.
Bantu Proverb
Like watermen that row oneway and look another.Robert Burton
One of the songs I’m gonnasing is “We all in the same boatbrother. You rock it too far to
the right you fall in the waddah,rock it too far to the left you
fall in the same waddah, andit’s justaswet on both sides.”Huddie “Leadbelly” Ledbetter
In battling evil, excess isgood; for he who is moderatein announcing the truth ispresenting half-truth.He _
conceals the other half out offear of the people's wrath.Kahlil Gibran
Paddle your own canoe.Proverb

10-6: TEN LOGS LIE UNDER AN ARCHWAY
LEADING TO DARKER WOODS
Commentary: ‘Ten Logs Lie Under an Archway Leading to Darker
Woods’ is an image of remnants of the past having fallen. The ‘TenLogs’ were previously trees, now they ‘Lie Under an Archway’,blocking the entrance to somewhere deeper in the ‘Woods’. The‘Ten Logs’ may be smack in the way of the entrance to these
‘Darker Woods’, blocking the possibility of the journey forward,or they may provide a bridge to venture deeper.
Oracle: Throughout life we develop skills and resources that
enhance our ability to cope with the present and help us in the
future. These things, represented by the ‘Ten Logs’, often need
to be stored somewhere. We usually store things out of the wayand in a place that is least used. When it is time to move on, you
come across all the things that have accumulated over time, andhave waiting for use. Perhaps these things are not relevant to your
path now. The thing is you may have to let them go. This cancause some grief, as you may not wish to let them go. However,the skills, talents and memories that developed whilst creatingthese resources remains with you on your journey. You may feelthere is a difficult and mysterious period ahead of you and that
you need to prepare. This marks a time to make any preparations
and create the necessary safeguards before continuing on yourjourney into the unknown. You are on an important journey,perhaps one of destiny, but you won’t know for a while what,or where, this journey is really leading to. Let go of obstructions
from the past, before you venture into the future. See this as
an opportunity for further growth. Look to see what’s standing
in your way. What could block your path now that you're at
the ‘Archway Leading to Darker Woods’? The trip may be very
rewarding, only time will tell.
Keywords: Journeys into the unknown. Getting past the past.Tenacity, stamina and energy preservation. Things to considerbefore moving deeper. Thresholds, ‘Archways’, entrances. Darkforests. The unknown and the “unknowable”. Delving into thesubconscious. Memories that lead into deep or strange places.Gateways. Fallen trees.
The Caution: Fear of the untrodden path. Being afraid to make amove. Things blocked or obstructed. Getting lost in something
and not knowing how to get out. Looking for directions that areobscure or concealed.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 6
The oldest and strongestemotion of mankind is fear, andthe oldest and strongest kind offear is fear of the unknown.H. P. Lovecraft
Today is a fresh start. |willsurpass all past performances!| cast aside those emotionalblocks which I may have placedin my own path.
R.A. Schwartz
The block of granite which is anobstacle in the pathway of theweak, becomes a steppingstonein the pathway of the strong.Thomas Carlyle
The road of life can only revealitself as it is traveled; each turnin the road reveals a surprise.
Man’s future is hidden.Anon
Man can learn nothing except
by going from the known to theunknown.Claude Bernard
Two roads diverged in a wood,and 1-1 took the one lesstraveled by, And that has madeall the difference.Robert Frost
As long asa manstands in hisown way, everything seems tobe in his way.
Ralph Waldo Emerson

10-7: A VEILED PROPHET SPEAKS SEIZED
BY THE POWER OF A GOD
Commentary: ‘A Veiled Prophet Speaks Seized By The Power of
a God’. The ‘Veiled Prophet Speaks’ can picture anyone, or anything, that can bring information or knowledge through to otherswho are willing to listen. The ‘Veiled Prophet’ may be someonewho holds the key to questions that need to be answered. They
can be a mouthpiece for the agenda of others.
Oracle: Information is coming through someone, or something,and it may be difficult to know whether to fully trust it. Withour modern age of communications, we can receive incredibleamounts of information. This can include all sorts of theories and
wonders. Some will be useful while some stretch the truth. Withsuch power contained in words, we have to be careful about whatwe say as well as what we hear. As this is a ‘Veiled Prophet’ therecan be complications associated with the “message” that’s beingspoken. As the ‘Prophet’ is ‘Seized By The Power of a God’, it can
be very powerful and useful knowledge that is being bestowed.Sometimes these messages have fabulous revelations and kernelsof truth that can lead you on a quest for more insight into how
the world operates. There’s often words and insights that we
can live our lives by, although not everyone will be swayed orinfluenced by this ‘Prophet’, however he or she can have animmense ‘Power’ of attraction and persuasion. Remember tobe careful to sift through the real meaning of what’s being said.Look carefully for the signs—is it truth that you are being fed?
This powerful energy can be used for the good of all involved, or
it can just lead people astray. The old saying goes that words are
like a “sword”, they can cut deeply and leave a vast impression,for good and for bad.
Keywords: Hypnotherapy or hypnotic suggestion. Manipulationof lesser beings. Having insights that transport to other levels.Channelling and medium ship. Translations. Prophets and bringersof messages. Empowerment. Messages erupting. Speaking.Announcing. Bearing important news. Power. Charisma. Veils.
Background voices.
The Caution: Conscious manipulation and propaganda. Notowning up to all the elements of one’s personality. Denyingexpression. Blurting out things that hurt or alienate. Barging intoother’s conversations. Leading people astray with exaggerationor lies. False impressions.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 7
Talking and eloquence are not
the same: to speak and to speakwell are two things.A fool maytalk, but a wise man speaks.Heinrich Heine
But words are things,andasmall drop of ink falling likedew upon a thought, producesthat which makes thousands,
perhaps millions, think.
Lord Byron
The most essential gift fora good writer is a built-in,
shockproof, shit detector. This isthe writers radar and all great
writers have had it.Ernest Hemingway
In medieval times, people
thought that evil spirits couldenter a person through an openmouth. These days they moreoften leave that way.David Deckert
The devil can site scripture for hispurpose.William Shakespeare
When God wants to speakand deal with us, he does not
avail himself of an angel but ofparents, or the pastor, or of our
neighbor.Martin Luther
The great masses of the people
... will more easily fall victims to
a great lie than to a small one.Adolf Hitler

10-8: BIRDS IN THE HOUSE SINGING
HAPPILY
Commentary: ‘Birds In The House’ are ‘Singing Happily’. This
is a beautiful image of lightness and happiness. To hear ‘BirdsSinging Happily’ is like a blessing, and if their sounds are ringingthrough your ‘House’, it can feel like a double blessing. The ‘BirdsSinging Happily’ can be echoed in the sounds of our loved one’s
voices, as they go about their daily lives with a sunny and cheerful
attitude. It may be music that’s played in the home.
Oracle: You may feel a sense of uncomplicated contentment. Even
though there are a number of social rules to obey, they probably
don’t bother you or those around you. This is a time for sharinggood feelings and ‘Happiness’ with all who enter your sphere of
operations. Feelings of safety and protection are spontaneouslyshared by the act of ‘Singing’, which can be actual ‘Singing’,but can also be laughter or animated conversation. To enjoy the
moment can often depend on you having faith that the goodthings of life will not fade, but will continue. In your situationit is important to hold to this faith and enjoy your life. It is wise
to remember to be “in the moment”. This Symbol is also about
the contagious nature of displays of happiness and celebrationsof joy and contentment. By expressing your pleasure you canlift the feelings of others and they will most likely join in the
chorus, in some way. The question is: Are people as ‘Happy’ andsecure in this situation as they look? A fairly quick glance aroundwill bring the message you probably need. Perhaps someone is
walking around singing, bringing joy. Alternatively, they may be
continually “singing the blues”. Remember to have music playingoften in your ‘House’ as it can dispel stress and help everyone
unwind.
Keywords: Being at one with everything. Tunes sung or whistled.The promise of contentment. Communal sharing and fun. Faithin the good things of life. Music. Instruments. Playing the piano.Singing. The radio. Chattering in the background. Entertainingothers. Seeing the beauty in life. Reminding others of how life canbe rewarding. The sound of voices. Birds. Positive thinking.
The Caution: Idle chatter. Smug superiority and the feeling thatone has it all. Not seeing the happiness inherent in one’s everydaylife. Whining and complaining. Making noise for the sake of it.
Looking only at the difficulties one faces. Feeling caged in.Unable to fly when and where one wants to. Loneliness. Feeling
abandoned by the good things.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 8
If I keep a green bough in myheart, the singing bird will come.Chinese Proverb
A forest bird never wants a cage.Henrik Ibsen
We think caged birds sing, when
indeed they cry.John Webster
A bird does not sing because ithas an answer.It sings because ithas a song.
Chinese Proverb
A guest sees more in an hourthan the hostin a year.
Polish Proverb
How easy to be amiable in themidst of happiness and success.
Anne Sophie Swetchine
“Hope” is the thing with feathersThat perches in the soul Andsings the tunes without thewords And never stops at all.Emily Dickinson
A good laugh is sunshine in ahouse.
William Makepeace Thackeray
Suffering is the price of beingalive, and it is music andsinging and art that has helpedme live through some of themost difficult things that havehappened to me.
Judy Collins

10-9: AN ANGEL COMES CARRYING A
HARP
Commentary: ‘An Angel Comes Carrying a Harp’. The ‘Angel' isan image of beauty, serenity, salvation and peace. As the ‘AngelComes Carrying a Harp’ there is the feeling of music, harmonyand enchantment. People who play music can transport ourminds, emotions and bodies through their beautiful melodiesand remind us of simple pleasures. The music that this ‘Angel’
plays is probably very soothing and reassuring. ‘Harps' are morecommon around us than most people probably realize. Pianoshave ‘Harps’ inside them, and harmonicas (mouth organs) areoften called a ‘Harp’. Things such as wind chimes can radiate
these harmonies as well.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, somebody is able to “tune in”and radiate harmony around him or her. This pictures a situation
of caring for others, of generosity of spirit and a fulfilled selfhood.
The ‘Angel’ may come to inspire people to do their best. This
Symbol implies that someone will come bringing themes of thehope and trust in all that’s good in life. They can, indeed, offerjoy and salvation, especially when it’s most needed. Having saidthat, the ‘Angel Carrying a Harp’ can also soothe your mind tothe point where you can be persuaded to accept or do thingsthat may not always be in your best interests. So, do be awareof the shadowy side of this Symbol: somebody trying to trickyou, or someone else, into thinking a certain way, or believing
something. Positively seen, this Symbol assures that there is an
indication of the possibility of absolute serenity (and the need
for it). It is a Symbol of being relaxed and reassured.
Keywords: Demons driven away by music. Lifting faith and
hope. Messages of peace from the other side. Having a messageto spin. Being in tune, spiritually. Having an elevated view ofhumanity. Creating harmony. Blowing the whistle. Advertising.
Salvation that arrives when most needed. Harmonics. Music and
musical instruments. Visitations of spirit. Messages of love andhope arriving. Pulling on the heartstrings. Heavenly attunement.Beautiful tunes. Promises of redemption. Revelations. Pluckingstrings.
The Caution: Having a holier-than-thou attitude. Losing oneselfin fantasy. Promising more than can be delivered. “Melodies” that
deceive or lead astray. ‘Harping’ on things (dwelling on issues).Messages that deceive or lead astray. Playing a tune and expectingall to follow.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 9
Fools rush in where angels fearto tread.Alexander Pope
Angels rush in when fools arealmost dead.Rudolph Fisher
Music is the harmonious voiceof creation; an echo of the
invisible world.Giuseppe Mazzini
Chords that were broken willvibrate once more.Fanny Crosby
When the angels present
themselves, the devils abscond.Egyptian Proverb
Music is well said to be thespeech of angels.
Thomas Carlyle
Orpheus with his lute madetrees, And the mountain tops
that freeze, Bow themselves
when he did sing.William Shakespeare
For thou art my harp, andpipe,and temple—a harp forharmony—a pipe by reason ofthe Spirit a temple by reason ofthe word;so that the first maysound, the second breathe, the
third contain the Lord.
The Bible
Harp not on that string,
madam, that is past.William Shakespeare

10-10: AN ALBATROSS FEEDING FROM THE
HAND OF A SAILOR
Commentary: ‘An Albatross Feeding From the Hand ofa Sailor’ isan image that implies the necessity of being able to overcome theperceived separation between humans and other living beings.Feelings of separation are usually the case when we don’t really
understand or trust each other in some way. The ‘Albatross’ has
to overcome the fear it experiences from being in such close
contact with a human and the ‘Sailor’ has to fight his superstitionsthat surround the ‘Albatross’. In “The Ancient Mariner”, a sailor iscondemned to eternally sail the world, after killing an albatross
that had helped rescue his ship.
Oracle: This is a time for overcoming fears through gentleness.Even seemingly natural “enemies” can realize the possibility
of interaction and the joys it can bring. You may have to deal
with someone, or something, from whom you have usually
kept a distance. Trusting in the goodness of people and otherliving beings - rather than projecting negative thoughts andconnotations onto them - can lead to experiences that few have.There can be a reward, tangible or otherwise, in calling all kindsof animals and people to you in the endeavor to have some kind of
exchange or communication. You may end up helping each otherin some way. Call out to those who appear to be different, faraway or alien to you, as there’s a good chance they will respond.Fears that inhibit communication and communion with otherscan be dispelled with simple and often spontaneous acts ofkindness and gentleness. Large leaps of faith can develop out ofthe smallest efforts of overcoming fear, distance and superstition.Being receptive, out reaching and caring can shorten or evencompletely dispel the separation between you. Extending a hand
to others without concern for the consequences can lead to fear
and alienation being overcome. It often just takes the simple actof reaching out.
Keywords: Feeding one’s higher nature with good nourishment.Banishing worries, so that one can fly ever higher. Overcomingsuperstitions or beliefs. Travelers who put themselves at risk inforeign lands or cultures. Talking to anybody anywhere. Sharingone’s bounty. Sailors, boats. Birds. Empathy and sympathy forothers. Restoring trust and hope.
The Caution: Manipulating events or people with falsenourishment. Having alternative motives for wanting to drawothers close. Being afraid of strangers or strange situations. Theloss of independence. Fear of intimacy.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 10
Courage is not the absence offear, but rather the judgmentthat something else is more
important than fear.Ambrose Redmoon
Dangers bring fears, and fearsmore dangers bring.Richard Baxter
Who sees all beings in his own
Self, and his own Self in all
beings, loses all fear.Upanishad
!must not fear. Fearisthe mind-killer. Fear is the little death thatbrings total obliteration.|willface my fear.I will permit it topass over me and through me.
And when it has gone past I willturn the inner eye to see its path.Where the fear has gone therewill be nothing. Only! will remain.Frank Herbert
The only thing we have to fearis fear itself.
Franklin D. Roosevelt
! once had a sparrow alightupon my shoulder for amoment while | was hoeing ina village garden, and I felt that I was more distinguished by
that circumstance than I should
have been by any epaulet I
could have worn.
Henry Thoreau
Do not speak of a rhinoceros if
there is no tree nearby.African Proverb

10-11: PHEASANTS DISPLAY THEIR
BRILLIANT COLORS ON A PRIVATE
ESTATE
Commentary: ‘Pheasants Display Their Brilliant Colors on a
Private Estate’ is an image of beauty, color and wealth. It pictures
a situation of the enjoyment of life’s luxuries. The ‘Pheasants’ arebeautiful as they ‘Display Their Brilliant Colors’. They have longtails and brilliantly colored plumage. People are drawn to their
beauty and can be awed by their presence. That they are on ‘A
Private Estate’ shows an environment of privilege and security.
Oracle: This can picture going after one’s life goals. Riches,refinement and abundance are everywhere. However, justtake care: ‘Pheasants’ can be game birds, so there may be anelement of underlying danger. Displays of wealth and beauty can
inspire others, but they can also lead to jealousy and begrudging
acknowledgments. That this place is pictured as a ‘Private Estate’
signifies that it may need to be protected, and kept ‘Private’.
People who don’t belong there may be able to come and visit,but it may be that they’re really invading someone else’s space
or privacy. The visitors need to show respect and courtesy andnot presume that they can move in and take over. On the other
hand, being ‘Private’, this place may not be truly welcoming topeople; they may find it unwelcoming and forbidding in some
way. There could be difficulty keeping up with the amount ofwork that goes into the maintenance of this ‘Private Estate’-itmay take a lot of time to look after the house and grounds. Whodoes the work and who appreciates the luxury? Looking after thelawn and the garden can bring a feeling of improved well-being.Regardless of whether you're a visitor or an occupant, going out
and looking at the beauty of the place, the plants and the wildlife,can heighten your day.
Keywords: Glorious houses and estates. Lawns and gardens.Statues and birdbaths. Peacocks, pheasants, swans, etc. Enjoyingthe riches the environment offers. Large plots of land. Nature
reserves. Game birds. Aristocracy and the ruling elite. Beauty,elegance and grace. Fabulous displays of color. Parks.
The Caution: Foolish disregard of pending danger. Feeling thatone has to be “on parade” or else they will be overlooked. Issuesof standing out from the crowd. Jealousy and envy through thingson display. Luxury and beauty or snobbery that excludes. Showingoff. “Do not enter” and "Keep Off The Grass" signs.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 11
Fine feathers make fine birds.Traditional Proverb
It is not only fine feathers thatmake fine birds.Aesop
It is not that the French are notprofound, but they all express
themselves so well that we are
led to take their geese for swans.
Van Wyck Brooks
Few rich men own theirown
property. The property ownsthem.Robert Greene Ingersoll
The more things accumulate themore life is wasted because they
have to be purchased at the cost
of life.
Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh—(aman with some 90 RollsRoyces)
He enjoys true leisure who hastime to improve his soul's estate.Henry David Thoreau
And as you consider the ways
of surrender and which way theBuddah sat,You're just trying ona hat.
Paul Smyth
Some believe all that parents,tutors, and kindred believe.They take their principles by
inheritance, and defend them as
they would their estates, becausethey are born heirs to them.Alan Watts

10-12: A STUDENT OF NATURE LECTURING,
REVEALING LITTLE-KNOWN
ASPECTS OF LIFE
Commentary: ‘A Student of Nature Lecturing, Revealing Little-Known Aspects of Life’ is an image of someone who’s studied thelessons that life teaches and is now giving that knowledge outto others so they can learn and benefit. This Symbol reflects thedisconnection of modern thinking from ‘Nature’ along with thedisappearance and loss of the more holistic structure of life. The
people who are listening to the ‘Student’ may be in awe of how
much he or she knows about the subject, especially as they are
hearing about the ‘Little-Known Aspects of Life’. The ‘Student’who’s ‘Lecturing’ may know a lot or perhaps they’re sharing therudimentary insights they have gleaned.
Oracle: Many have forgotten, or never learnt, some importantthings about life and it’s by reconnecting with ‘Nature’ that we
can start to redress the imbalance. It may be that too much weighthas been given to the needs of modern society, to technology forinstance, and now it is time to seek a more alternative viewpoint.We can teach or we can access knowledge through others whospecialize in these subjects; they have done the footwork ingathering the relevant information. In other words, we can usethe tools of intellectualism that have actually disconnected us fromthe world in order to reconnect our awareness. However, it maybe that nobody much cares what the ‘Student’ that is ‘Lecturing’
has to say—it depends how the message is delivered and whether
others really want to listen. In the situation facing you, you can bean example to others of somebody who understands the wondersof ‘Life’. Practical certifications and applications of knowledge mayor may not matter. Lecturing or telling stories of the wonders
of life can inspire others to greater heights in their own lives.Revealing the truth of something can lead to wonder and awe, butit can also lead to disbelief, it really depends on how the message
is received.
Keywords: Observing and translating so others may learn. Greenpolitics. Issues the conservatives don’t want revealed. Nature andnatural remedies. Science and its rewards and drawbacks. Issuessuch as global warming. Whistle blowers. Natural healing methods.
Documentaries. Conspiracy theories.
The Caution: Radical non-humanistic views. Intellectual smugness.‘Lecturing’ and browbeating. Modern technological advances thatstifle the environment. Lip service to conservation issues.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 12
The study of Nature is
intercourse with the HighestMind. You should never triflewith Nature.Louis Agassiz
It is not easy to describe the seawith the mouth.Kokyu
The Sun, with all the planets
revolving around it,and
depending on it, can still ripena bunch of grapes as though it
had nothing else in the Universe
to do.Galileo Galilei
The happiness of the bee andthe dolphin is to exist. For man
it is to know that and to wonderat it.
Jacques Cousteau
Nature never says one thingand wisdom another.
Decimus Junius Juvenalis
Nature uses human
imagination to lift her work ofcreation to even higher levels.Luigi Pirandello
Ifyou would thoroughly know
anything, teach it to others.Tryon Edwards
Nature that framed us of fourelements, warring within ourbreasts for regiment, doth teachus all to have aspiring minds.Christopher Marlowe

10-13: A FIRE WORSHIPPER MEDITATES
ON THE ULTIMATE REALITIES OF
EXISTENCE
Commentary: ‘A Fire Worshipper Meditates on the Ultimate Realitiesof Existence’ pictures someone who's very focused on finding the
core truths of ‘Reality’ and the depth and breadth of what it really
means to ‘Exist’. ‘Fire Worshipping’ comes from the religion ofZoroastrianism, and is a branch of Vedism. The term Zoroastrianismcomes from the Persian prophet Zoroaster or Zarathustra about 630541 BC. Whilst a young man, he began having conversations withAhura Mazda, the “Lord of Wisdom”. Fire was seen as the CreativeGod, as it was said to purify people, especially those that it consumed.
'Magian’ is another word for ‘Fire Worshipper’ and can be used todenote an astrologer. Many rituals were observed, amongst these
the sacred ‘Fire’ needed to be kept glowing in the home and also inthe heart and mind.
Oracle: In your situation, you may find yourself very focused, witha great passion for getting to the core, or the truth, of the ‘UltimateRealities of Existence’. You may need to shut out extraneous sights,
sounds and outside influences that distract or worry. By turninginward, examining your situation and being on the alert for anymessages that come your way, either from God or from your higherself, you will see in a way you've never done before. There can bea sense of danger, but also fascination as things are revealed to you.This can picture new beginnings. There may be a need to harnesspersonal resources. This Symbol is often about creating magic. Lookthrough appearances to get to the heart of things. Alternatively, itcan picture someone who goes to fanatical lengths to understand orpromote something. This Symbol often calls into question the truemeaning of the material things of life; do they get too much or toolittle attention?
Keywords: Self-conquest. Kundalini energy. Playing with dangerous
elements to reach a higher state of being. Philosophy. The storiesof our lives. Examining life and its meaning. The buzz of being
alive. Questions of our very existence. Finding the reasons behindeverything. Contemplation and meditation. Incense. The hypnoticspell that fire can cast. Staring into the flames. Throwing oneself intothe deep end. The search for core truths.
The Caution: Overestimation of personal power and abilities.
Obsession to the point of self-obliteration. Being intense. Going too
deeply. Exhausting oneself. Excluding family and friends becauseof philosophical or spiritual convictions, Not seeing the woods forthe trees.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 13
Knowing trees, understand themeaning of patience. Knowing
grass,I can appreciate persistence.Hal Boreland
The instinct to worship is hardlyless strong than the instinct toeat.Dorothy Thompson
Genius-worship is the inevitable
sign of an uncreative age.
Clive Bell
An egotist is a self-made manwho worships his creator.John Bright
We have become a generation
of people who worship our work,
who work at our play, and who
play at our worship.Charles Swindoll
lfonly the sun-drenchedcelebrities are being noticed andworshiped, then our childrenare going to have a tough time
seeing the value in the shadows,where the thinkers, probers andscientists are keeping societytogether.Rita Dove
Great moments in science:Einstein discovers that time isactually money.Gary Larson
The logic of words should yield
to the logic of realities.Louis Brandeis

10-14: AN ANCIENT BAS-RELIEF CARVED IN
GRANITE REMAINS A WITNESSTOA
LONG-FORGOTTEN CULTURE
Commentary: ‘Ancient Bas-Reliefs Carved in Granite’ oftenshow gods or goddesses in scenes of life from the past. We seethese icons in museums and books, portrayed in photographs,statues, carvings, and other images. As it ‘Remains a Witnessto a Long-Forgotten Culture’, many things can be learnt fromthese ‘Bas-Reliefs’ about history, cultures and their remains. Anarcheological dig can turn up incredible insights and answers tothe way mankind lived long ago.
Oracle: Some things never fade. They stand as reminders ofancient eras, bringing messages, being ‘Witnesses’, from thepast. They remind us of how life and civilization was in ‘Long-Forgotten Cultures’. Messages may be found in these remindersabout the stability and the longevity of the foundation of yoursociety, or possibly that of some other culture, however distantin time and space. It could be something that resonates with youor draws you. Spiritual messages may be coming out of the past
(or out of time and space), perhaps speaking through ‘Granite’,concrete or things “written in stone”. This can be very enriching
and rewarding as these things can be beautiful remnants of thepast, reminders of how life used to be. However, they can alsobe attitudes, beliefs and self-defeating attitudes that have etchedthemselves into our very lives and are now difficult to erase.Therefore, sometimes we must be careful not to be looking backtoo much as we can lose the beauty and the reward inherent inthe present and in the everyday things that are around us. Wecan feel stuck and frozen if we’re not able to move on in the lifewe live in the here and now. This can also apply to the rules of
our culture or the common practices of an individual’s heritage,
family history or even past life experiences. These can be an
undertone to current realities and times.
Keywords: Anonymous immortality. Things written or carvedin stone, or concrete. Permanent records. Clues from the past.Things that should be shaped and changed with the times. Piecesof art or sculpture. Things that belong in a museum. Inscriptionsand carvings. Ancient civilizations and their relics. History.
The Caution: Limitations that don’t allow for changes. Old andoutworn situations. Things that can not, or will not, ever change.Memories frozen in time. Feeling stuck, like no growth is possible.Frigidity of feelings.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 14
Man’‘s great power ofthinking, remembering, and
communicating are responsible
for the evolution of civilization.Linus Pauling
INSCRIPTION, n. Somethingwritten on another thing—mostly memorial, intendedto commemorate the fame ofsome illustrious person andhand down to distant ages...e.g., the name of John Smith,
penciled on the Washingtonmonument.Ambrose Bierce
Write your injuries in dust, yourbenefits in marble.Benjamin Franklin
Memories are like stones, time
and distance erode them like
acid.Ugo Betti
History is the unrolled scroll ofprophecy.James A. Garfield
Human history becomes more
and more a race betweeneducation and catastrophe.H. G, Wells
Either we make history orremain a victim of it.Anon
The ear is a less trustworthy
witness than the eye.Herodotus

10-15: IN A HOSPITAL,THE CHILDREN’S
WARD IS FILLED WITH TOYS
Commentary: ‘In a Hospital, the Children’s Ward is Filled WithToys’ brings to mind an image of children in varying states of
health. They are in need of care, with doctors and nurses goingabout their business. There’s the need for vigilant duty for the
physical and emotional needs of ‘The Children’. Some ‘Children’will be playing with the ‘Toys’, whilst others may be sleeping ortoo ill to respond with much energy or enthusiasm.
Oracle: There may be a need for caring shows of affectionate
concern, either for yourself or others. Simple things done topromote healing can bring great relief to all concerned. Thefact that ‘The Children’s Ward is Filled With Toys’ reflects a
generosity of spirit. Service and the gift of healing are given,
especially to those who are younger or less able to look after
themselves without any expectation of reciprocal giving. Thepurpose of the ‘Toys’ is to give the ‘Children’ a special treat andis an acknowledgment of their value in society along with thecommunity’s concern for their welfare and good health. In times
of healing there is a need for simple pleasures and rewards to raiseone’s spirit. Showing kindness and nurturance to those who are
in need can lead to faster healing and allow people to take theirplace back out in the world again. Listening to the needs of ‘TheChildren’ is very important, as they can provide clues as to what
is really causing problems or happening in their lives. This canpicture a situation where many kinds of healing methods can be
employed, anything from “Toys’ and gadgets all the way up to state
of the art, up-to-date technology. However, sometimes a simplesmile, a special treat and some soothing words of encouragement
are more healing than one can at first imagine.
Keywords: Bringing simple gifts to the sick or disadvantaged.Looking after one’s responsibilities. Nurturing people of
younger years or those who’ve had less growth. Workshops
held to improve one’s health; be it physical, mental, emotionalor spiritual. Drugs, crutches, cots, doctors, nurses. Waiting for
and needing individual attention. Waiting rooms. Magazines. Toys.
Gadgets. Puzzles. Games.
The Caution: Making a large generous show when one doesn’treally care. Being dogmatic. Feeling in charge of healing and notlistening to what others have to say. Using gadgets instead ofsimple human caring. Fear of things such as needles, etc. Beinggreedy and wanting all the toys.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 15
A hospital is no place to be sick.Samuel Goldwyn
Society is a hospital of incurables.Ralph Waldo Emerson
Do not mistake a child for hissymptom.Erik Erikson
We are so fond on one another
because our ailments are thesame.Jonathan Swift
I found in you a holy place
apart, Sublime endurance,God in man revealed Where
mending broken bodies slowly
healed My broken heart.Vera Brittain
I want to walk into a room, beit a hospital for the dying orahospital for the sick children,and feel that I am needed.
I want to do, not just to be.
Princess of Wales Diana
One of the most difficult thingsto contend with in a hospital isthe assumption on the part ofthe staff that because you havelost your gall bladder you havealso lost your mind.
Jean Kerr
In this era of affluence and ofpermissiveness, we have, in allbut cultural areas, bred a nationof over privileged youngsters,
saturated with vitamins,
television and plastic toys.
Judith Crist

10-16: SCHOOL GROUNDS FILLED WITH
BOYS AND GIRLS IN GYMNASIUM
SUITS
Commentary: ‘School Grounds Filled With Boys and Girls inGymnasium Suits’ brings to mind images of youthful people,
doing their exercises, playing with and enjoying each other ona physical level. The ‘Boys and Girls’ learn how to interact witheach other in the ‘School Grounds’. There is the sense that theyare having fun, regardless of their individual level of fitness. Somewill be very good at sports and be the stars in the ‘Gym’ whilst
others are there because they want to join in the fun or because
they are instructed to be there and have no choice. Many of their
relationship lessons are first learnt here.
Oracle: This Symbol asks whether you’ve been neglecting yourphysicai well-being of late. Now is a good time to reestablish an
affinity with your body and your vitality. Spontaneous enthusiasm
and the joy of being truly “alive” and youthful can regenerate and
revive and bring about carefree contact with like-minded people.Nourishing the body with good nutrition, being in the outdoors,enjoying the company of others and the competition of sport canenliven everyone’s spirits. Physical exercise is a necessary part ofthe education of young people’s minds and bodies. Giving youththe opportunity to learn how to play sport and the benefits ofthe concepts of “fair play” amongst their peers leads to a healthy
society. However, discipline may need to be brought into thissituation. Children picking on others for things such as not beingclever physically, or not having a perfect body, etc., should be
discouraged as everyone has their own special talents and needs.With this Symbol, there can be a form of “conscription” where
one has to wear a uniform when they may not want to.
Keywords: Developing muscular coordination. Sexual energy,attraction or satisfaction. Playing, marching, competition, rivalry.
Singing songs of unity. New anthems for the young. The searchfor identity. Being able to accomplish things on the physical level.Physical fitness. Uniforms and uniformity. Gymnasiums. Exerciseequipment. Conscription. Being one of many. Learning how to getalong with the opposite sex. Bodybuilding. Level playing fields.
The Caution: Physical showing off for sexual attention.Relationships based on purely physical or sexual attraction.
Having to do things that one isn’t capable of physically doing.Not joining in.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 16
They call it physical education,
but it feels like gym to me.Lisa Simpson
Anatomy is destiny.Sigmund Freud
The only reason | would take up
jogging is so! could hear heavy
breathing again.
Erma Bombeck
ACADEME, n. An ancient school
where morality and philosophywere taught./ ACADEMY, n.[from ACADEME] A modernschool where football is taught.Ambrose Bierce
Champions aren't made ingyms. Champions are made
from something they have deep
inside them—a desire, a dream,
a vision. They have to have theskill, and the will. But the willmust be stronger than the skill.Muhammad Ali
A school without football is in
danger of deteriorating intoa
medieval study hall.
Frank Leahy
Before the child ever gets toschool it will have received
crucial, almost irrevocable sex
education and this will have
been taught by the parents,
who are not aware of what they
are doing.Mary Steichen Calderone

10-17: A YOUNG WOMAN SURREPTITIOUSLY
BATHING IN THE NUDE
Commentary: A ‘Young Woman’ is shown. She is ‘SurreptitiouslyBathing in the Nude’. Whether she’s lying in the sun, or ‘Bathing’in a pool, she’s letting her body soak up the energy of the elementswithout worrying about the constraints of clothing or the fear ofsomeone seeing her. She may be enjoying the delicious feelingthat comes from allowing her body to be caressed by the sun, thewind or the water. Perhaps she’s surrendering to the impulse of
independence and freedom as she employs the right to enjoy her
body without worrying about what others may think or how they will react.
Oracle: You may feel the need to be rid of the restraints that have
been imposed by social conditioning and its inhibitions. Although
there may be some feelings of being “exposed”, really letting go andnot worrying about being “seen” can lead to feelings of freedom.This Symbol also speaks about the desire to break the “prudish”
rules of society. The restrictions set on us by society are often
against enjoying the physical body, and therefore prohibit opennessand the resulting fun. The inhibitions that society imposes areoften based on expressions of shame and criticism. This Symbol
can also bring up issues to do with one’s privacy and the desire
to enjoy personal freedom and independence. There should be a
sense of comfort within your self, but without the desire to impose
on others. It can also show the drive to reveal the real truth aboutyourself to others. Be wary of really exposing yourself too readily
or too much to others, in the things you say or do, as you may do
better to keep things more to yourself. What is it that’s really beingrevealed, and what is it that needs to be revealed? Getting the outerlayers of the situation off can show core realities that have so farbeen avoided. Try swimming, or getting out in the sun, as this willhelp ease up any tensions that are around.
Keywords: Confrontations with one’s self. Reconnecting with
nature. A desire to “reveal” oneself mentally, physically or
emotionally. Issues with weight. The manipulation of the femaleform in the media. Exhibitionism. Learning to let go of extraneous
things. Confronting puritanism. Being at one with the environment.
Releasing inhibitions. Stripping. Streaking. Sun lotions.
The Caution: Suppression of natural attitudes. Bondage to socialinhibitions. Feeling “indecent” about one’s bodily responses.Hiding one’s self away OR being an exhibitionist. Showing offwith no concern for other’s feelings. Shocking and surprisingbehavior.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 17
I think on-stage nudity isdisgusting, shameful and
damaging to all thingsAmerican. But if |were 22with a great body, it would be
artistic, tasteful, patriotic andaprogressive religious experience.Shelley Winters
How much has to be explored
and discarded before reachingthe naked flesh of feeling.Claude Debussy
I wouldn't do nudity in films.To act with my clothes on is aperformance.To act with my
clothes off is a documentary.
Julia Roberts
What spirit is so empty and
blind, that it cannot recognize
the fact that the foot is more
noble than the shoe, and
skin more beautiful thanthe garment with which it isclothed?
Buonarroti Michelangelo
A bare assertion is not
necessarily the naked truth.
George D. Prentice
From the American newspapersyou'd think America was
populated solely by nakedwomen and cinema stars.Nancy Astor
Clothes make the man.Naked people have little or no
influence in society.Mark Twain

10-18: THE UNION JACK FLIES FROMA
NEW BRITISH WARSHIP
Commentary: ‘The Union Jack Flies From a New British Warship’ isan image of the need for protection and control. It pictures having tooversee and protect a large “empire” where reliability and leadership
are Vital to the welfare of the people. Having to make one’s presencefelt and to guard one’s territory can be a tiring responsibility, butthere is an awareness of the guidance and protection of “all whowent before”. Effective supervision needs to be employed to protectwhat’s been won, sometimes at great cost, from others who mightwant to take it away. Countries, and things such as social and politicalconstructs, all the way down to the individual, need this surveillanceand protection from those who might invade, attack or threaten.We invest the “armed forces’ with this responsibility, so that we, asindividuals in society, may enjoy our secure lives.
Oracle: This Symbol is about the need to defend our ideals, lifestyleor culture from outside influences. It is important to show one’spower, but also to continually renew strength. This can be a showput on for others, but also an affirmation of safety for yourself and
those who are in your circle of influence or protection. If there is athreat from outside your boundaries, or from within, there needsto be a swift response to snuff it out. However, if anarchy erupts
within the ranks, political ploys may be used such as the concept of“divide and rule’—the political rule that government is more easilymaintained if factions are set against each other and not allowedto unite against the ruler. Distrust or disrespect for “authority” can
lead to problems with people branded traitors. Having confidencein your ability to hold, maintain and protect your own “turf” will
ensure others do as well.
Keywords: Colonialism. Protectionism. The government, big businessand the media. Class-consciousness. Power and political displays.
Displays of “law and order”. Border patrols and protection. Strength
and might. Nationalism. Royalty. The ruling elite. Supervision. The
armed forces. Patrols. Pitting people against each other. Empires.Victory bringing riches. The mother country. The struggle againstdecline. Flags. Imperialism. The Commonwealth. The rule of law.
The Caution: Artificial shows of strength. Bullying from the “bigguys”. Being armed “to the teeth”. Strong-arm tactics. Disrespectfor authority. People or institutions that throw their weight around.Anarchy. Traitors. Being antiestablishment. Social disintegration. Wargames. Civil wars. Feeling squeezed by authority. Rebellion. Civilian
lives lost for political causes. Governing forces that deny individualrights. Invasions. Being defensive.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 18
Use power to curb power.Chinese Proverb
I must study politics and war that
my sons may have liberty to studymathematics and philosophy.John Adams
Sail on, O Ship of State! Sailon, O Union, strong and great!Humanity with all its fears, With
all the hopes of future years, Ishanging breathless on thy fate!Hendry Wadsworth Longfellow
Councils of war never fight.Proverb
FLAG,n.A colored rag borneabove troops and hoisted on
forts and ships. It appears toserve the same purpose ascertain signs that one seeson vacant lots in London—“Rubbish may be shot here.”Ambrose Bierce
I went to a very militantlyRepublican grammar schooland, under its influence,
began to revolt against theEstablishment, on the simplerule of thumb, highly satisfyingto a ten-year-old, that Irish
equals good, English equals bad.Bernadette Devlin
Britain is not a country that is
easily rocked by revolution ...In
Britain our institutions evolve. We
are a Fabian Society writ large.William Hamilton

10-19: A CHILD OF ABOUT FIVE CARRYING
A HUGE SHOPPING BAG FILLED
WITH GROCERIES
Commentary: ‘A Child of About Five’ is seen. He is ‘Carrying aHuge Shopping Bag Filled With Groceries’. Although the ‘Child’is only young, he has to act like a grown-up, or, at the very least,like someone much older than his tender years. He probably hasto carry many other responsibilities as well. Perhaps his parents
aren't able to physically or mentally carry the load themselves.It may be that nobody else wants to. It could be that this young
person is mature for his age and feels the need, the necessity orthe desire, to act above the usual expectations. Further, it couldbe that his parents want him to grow up with a strong sense ofresponsibility.
Oracle: You may feel that you have been lumbered withresponsibilities beyond the normal dictates of your experience
and possibly beyond your safe or comfortable capabilities. Despite
being keen and enthusiastic, you should be mindful not to tryto do too much, too quickly. There can be a feeling of having somuch to carry in life that fears of your physical or mental healthcan arise. Whatever your situation, there’s the need to play, becreative and rest as well. If you can find a balance between having
fun and being youthful, and shouldering chores and jobs, you willachieve a lot and not wear yourself out in the process. Being theone who has to do things can crowd the consciousness and drumout your sense of youth and creativity. Having to always springto attention and do the chores can lead to feelings of being usedand “used-up” before one’s time. If someone in your environment
is carrying too much of the load, perhaps you could lend a handand relieve them.
Keywords: Being the one everyone counts on to do the job.Feeling weighed down. Having to carry the “bag”. Lifting heavy
weights and bearing the consequences. Taking on things aboveand beyond what one should. Acting the grownup. Maturingquickly. Looking after paperwork. Running errands. Providingfood and sustenance for everyone.
The Caution: Overloading the innocent and the inexperiencedwithout thought of the consequences. Taking on too much. Not
allowing for fun and carefree activities. Never being “off-duty”.Joint, back and shoulder problems. Growing up too fast. Having
a serious attitude. Lack of childhood. Dropping the bundle.
Carrying the family's responsibilities.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 19
Responsibilities gravitate to theperson who can shoulder them.Elbert Hubbard
Loving a child doesn’t mean
giving in to all his whims; to
love him is to bring out the bestin him, to teach him to love
what is difficult.Nadia Boulanger
A child of five could understand
this. Fetch me a child of five.Groucho Marx
All business depends upon men
fulfilling their responsibilities.Mahatma Gandhi
If anyone thinks he has noresponsibilities, it is because he
has not sought them out.Mary Lyon
Man must cease attributing hisproblems to his environment,and learn again to exercisehis will—his personal
responsibility.Albert Schweitzer
People need responsibility. They
resist assuming it, but they
cannot get along without it.John Steinbeck
RESPONSIBILITY, n.Adetachable burden easilyshifted to the shoulders of God,Fate, Fortune, Luck or one’sneighbor.Ambrose Bierce

10-20: A HIDDEN CHOIR SINGING DURING
A RELIGIOUS SERVICE
Commentary: ‘A Hidden Choir Singing During a Religious Service’pictures the voices, music, celebration and worship of a group ofpeople, the ‘Choir’. They come together to celebrate a sense ofunity and community. As they are a ‘Hidden Choir’, they are theoften unseen support that helps us to celebrate the spiritual orcommunal rituals and celebrations. Music raises the spirits, andthe sounds of voices can be very uplifting. Songs are sung with orwithout music.Done well, it can sound almost “heavenly” to the
ears, hearts and minds of those who are present to hear, as well
as to those who participate.
Oracle: In the celebration of spiritual unity we are never trulyisolated, separate or alone. Be receptive to your feminine, intuitiveside; there are messages to be heard even though they may not,at first, be apparent. There is a voice, or voices, to be heard inmoments of reverence, meditation, worship and giving thanks. The‘Hidden Choir’ can be “voices” that remind us of our history, ourgenetic background, even our past lives. Realize that you are notalone, there are other people who feel the same things. Everyone
should feel that their voice can be heard. Women were long keptfrom having a voice in “the Church”. Now the voices of women
are being heard more and more through orthodox halls. Do youhear the ‘Choir’ and do you want to contribute? It helps if we keep“in tune” with others as this allows us to either enthusiasticallyjoin in the chorus or remain a little quieter and reserved without
feelings of embarrassment or discomfort. This Symbol can showboth the community support for the positive celebration of lifeand the mindless chatter that goes on about issues to do withethics, morals, beliefs, ways of life, etc. The faces of the people,the “Hidden Choir”, may not necessarily be recognized, but theirsongs, words, opinions or voices can still be heard.
Keywords: Background messages. Voices not heard or noticedbefore. Men, women and the church. Sensitivity to spirituality.Speaking behind closed doors. Voices from “nowhere”. Melodiesfrom the past. Choirs, organs and organ music. Channeled voices.Songs, sheet music. Hidden speakers. Clairvoyance.
The Caution: Taking undue credit for group qualities. Keeping thefeminine out of the picture. Discriminating against people as not being “spiritual” or finding that some just plain aren’t! Backgroundvoices telling people how they should live. Using hidden messagesto manipulate people, sometimes through guilt. Gossip. Messagesthat don’t make sense. Being afraid to sing.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 20
What’s invisible sings, and webear witness.
Rita Dove
Let us be silent that we may
hear the whispers of the gods.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Music expresses that which
cannot be said and on which it
is impossible to be silent.
Victor Hugo
The hidden harmony is betterthan the obvious.Alexander Pope
Of course the music is a greatdifficulty. You see, if one playsgood music, people don’t listen,and if one plays bad musicpeople don’t talk.Oscar Wilde
I like the silent church before
the service begins, better thanany preaching.Ralph Waldo Emerson
Religion’s in the heart, not in theknees.Douglas William Jerrold
It is difficult to produce atelevision documentary that is
both incisive and probing when
every twelve minutes one is
interrupted by twelve dancing
rabbits singing about toilet paper.
Rod Serling
Let us go singing as far as we go: the road will be less tedious.
Virgil

10-21: A RELAY RACE
Commentary: ‘A Relay Race’ is an image of people workingtogether as a team. They are endeavoring to finish a ‘Race’ andto win a victory, often for some higher cause other than their ownpersonal glory. This can be for their school, nation or ideals. Asthis is a ‘Relay Race’, they take turns running and pass the batonto another when the moment is right.
Oracle: You may sense that the end is in sight and the victoryachievable, but you'll probably realize that you are only onemember of a team, with your own special task to perform. Alevel of trust is required when you work with a team. It is vitalthat everyone gives their best and doesn’t hold back. If someoneendeavors to run the whole race by themself, even if they thinkit’s the right thing to do, it can be seen as a form of selfishnesswhere everything is put at risk because of the inability to share or
act cooperatively. The aim of each should be for the team to reachthe finish line, or the goal, regardless of individual performances.In fact, it may almost be impossible to complete the course on
your own. For the best results, people should work together in thissituation, each taking their turn and their due rewards. Criticismshould be kept to a minimum. As long as each member of the
team has tried his or her best it is unwise to compare. You may
not be the one who actually crosses the “finish line”, but you will,
eventually, share in the glory of the group effort. However, if youdon’t know where the “finish line” is, it can lead to confusion asyou just keep running (or going for it), with no end in sight. The
interconnectedness of people in a shared endeavor leads to thetask being achieved. Just be watchful for when you should bothtake on and pass the responsibility.
Keywords: Shared endeavor. Knowing when to hand
on responsibilities. Teamwork. Knowing when to finish.Encouragement and trust. Sharing and cooperation.
Inheritances. Timing. Being competitive. Taking turns. Handingon responsibilities. Split second timing. Hand eye coordination.Having an on/off switch.
The Caution: Not letting go of control to another . Feelingdefeated through feeling that you don’t have the necessary
resources to win. Criticism and competitiveness. Acting only
for one’s best interests. Competitiveness in inter-reactions and
conversation. Butting in when others are talking. Expectingothers to do all the work or carry responsibilities. Not sharingthe glory or the rewards.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 21
You have no control over whatthe other guy does. You onlyhave control over what you do.A. J. Kitt
I don't compete with otherdiscus throwers.I compete with
my own history.Al Oerter
If you can’t win, make the fellow ahead of you break the record.Anon
The few who do are the envy of
the many who only watch.
Jim Rohn
Life begins when you get outof the grandstand and into thegame.P.L. Debevoise
Great discoveries and
improvements invariably
involve the cooperation of
many minds.
Alexander Graham Bell
One man alone can be prettydumb sometimes, but for real
bona fide stupidity, there ain'tnothing to beat teamwork.Edward Abbey
Talent wins games, butteamwork and intelligence winchampionships.Michael Jordan
Conversation is an art in whichman has all mankind forcompetitors.Ralph Waldo Emerson

10-22: A GENERAL ACCEPTING DEFEAT
GRACEFULLY
Commentary: ‘A General’ is seen ‘Accepting Defeat Gracefully’.He has to acknowledge a ‘Defeat’ of some kind and respond
without losing face. Being a ‘General’, this person is obviouslyoften a “winner”, respected for being in charge and in command.
Now there’s the need for acknowledgment of a loss or a ‘Defeat’,or a backing down of some kind.
Oracle: There’s an old saying: Winning or losing doesn’t matteras much as how you play the game. Through the acceptance
of ‘Defeat’, one can often discover important and valuable life
lessons. Merely making excuses can lead to the same mistakesbeing made again and again, when there is no longer any pointin pushing matters. At a time of “surrender”, it is the way thesituation is handled that will be remembered the most. It is how‘Gracefully’ you handle ‘Defeat’ that will be the measure of your
inner worth both to yourself and others. Sometimes it is wise toconcede when the “victory” or the “prize” is more valuable for
your opponent than yourself. Admitting that one has lost or isprepared to give up can free you up to get on with your life andmore rewarding adventures. Learning from ‘Defeat’ can bringstrength of character. On a deeper level, ‘Defeat’ shows us thatwe are neither perfect, nor indestructible. Is the objective, battleor conflict really worth winning or pursuing? Going for revenge,greed or glory can often prove to end up badly as things can turnsour. Sometimes pushing your agenda can hurt your cause andit’s better to back off and hold your tongue. Struggling to haveyour point made or accepted may be self-defeating. This canhappen in simple everyday situations such as conversation with
others not understanding what you're saying or doing. Realizing
that you’re not going to change others can lead to being able to
‘Accept’ things in a better light.
Keywords: True inner worth. Being a “good loser”. Learningthat every minor skirmish in life is not a major ‘Defeat’. Beingprepared to start again. Sacrificing things for the benefit of others.Nobility of character. Letting go of the “charge” around anger.
Surrendering. Knowing when to let go.
The Caution: Being a “bad loser”. Feeling everything is going tocome out badly. Reliance on self-limitations. Seeing the negativein everything. Losing what’s been worked for. Making excusesto get out of tight situations. Betrayal and loss. Loss of support.
Surrendering too early. Giving up on life.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 22
The greatness of a man’s poweris the measure of his surrender.William Booth
Defeat is a state of mind. Noone is ever defeated until defeathas been accepted as a reality.Bruce Lee
A proud heart can survive a
general failure because such a failure does not prick its pride.Chinese Proverb
An unjust peace is better thanajust war. Cicero
Failure is nature’s plan to prepareyou for great responsibilities.Napoleon
Always imitate the behavior ofwinners when you lose.Anon
The surrender of life isnothing to sinking down into
acknowledgment of inferiority.John C. Calhoun
You don't always win your battles,but it’s good to know you fought.Marjorie Holmes
But man is not made for defeat.Aman can be destroyed but notdefeated.Ernest Hemingway
Part of the happiness of lifeconsists notin fighting battles,but in avoiding them.A masterlyretreat is in itself a victory.Norman Vincent Peale

10-23: A SOLDIER RECEIVING TWO
AWARDS FOR BRAVERY IN COMBAT
Commentary: ‘A Soldier’ is seen ‘Receiving Two Awards ForBravery in Combat’. The ‘Soldier’ has been through a struggleor ordeal and has come out in some way victorious. ‘Awards’are given to the ‘Soldier’ for ‘Bravery in Combat’, with hiscourage and skill being recognized and rewarded. Indeed, truedeeds of service, valor and ‘Bravery’ should be rewarded andacknowledged in some way.
Oracle: We often need to be acknowledged for the issuesor causes we've fought for and the battles we’ve endured,whether we come out on top, or not. In your situation, yourefforts may be recognized with some show of appreciation orcompensation. It may be that you need to recognize another’sachievement, behavior, or ‘Bravery’. Perhaps someone actually
made it through by admitting defeat and pulling out when thetime was right. If we’ve been wronged by society in some way,
and shown ourselves to be strong and able to stand up to difficult or threatening situations, there may need to be reparations paid,
money or rewards of some kind to make up for any trauma, lostopportunities or loss of family or social life. There’s a warningthough, of the feeling of being desperate to win, regardless of thecost. Sometimes people will fight over who is the most deservingfor being battle-scarred and who’s the braver or the stronger orthere’s a struggle over who deserves the ‘Award’, who put in themost effort, and who has come out the victor in a situation. It canbe discouraging and disappointing if we feel we have to go into‘Combat’ to prove the merit of our deeds, our life or our beliefs.Sometimes we have to cut our losses before we end up plunginginto ‘Combat’ once again. Was the outcome worth what wentinto it? If you can see the ‘Awards’ in a rewarding light, howeverthey manifest, you can turn your life into a victory showing your
power, strength and bravery.
Keywords: Desperate striving for recognition. Rewards forinvolvement in tough situations. Medals and trophies. Tributes,acknowledgments and benefits given or showered. Awardceremonies. Posthumous awards. Giving thanks. Compensation.
Insurance and legal claims. Recompense for taking action.
The Caution: ‘Awards’ as Band-Aids to assuage guilt producedin war. Expecting money or other rewards for doing anythingthat one doesn’t want to. The ills, social and otherwise, ofcombat fighting. Neurotic seeking of praise or acknowledgment.Rejection lines. Bribery.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 23
Try to get all of yourposthumous medals in advance.Anon
When I stand before thee at theday's end, thou shalt see my
scars and know that I had mywounds and also my healing.Rabindranath Tagore
When someone does something
good, applaud!
You will make two people happy.Samuel Goldwyn
To refuse awards is another wayof accepting them with morenoise than is normal.Peter Ustinov
Courage is resistance to fear,mastery of fear — not absenceof fear.
Mark Twain
One should use praise torecognize what one is not.Elias Canetti
Courage—a perfect sensibility
of the measure of danger,anda
mental willingness to endure it.William T. Sherman
Heroes may not be braver thananyone else. They're just braverfive minutes longer.Ronald Reagan
I don’t deserve this award, but I
have arthritis and I don’t deservethat either.Jack Benny

10-24: A WOMAN ENTERING A CONVENT
Commentary: ‘A Woman’ is seen ‘Entering a Convent’. She needs
to spend time contemplating her inner thoughts and values awayfrom the pressures of society. This may be a lonely passage
and she may be disenchanted with the hassles, pressures andcomplications of society. There needs to be times of inner work,
just as for outer work. Sacrificing one’s own needs for a time in
order to dedicate one’s life to the “big picture” can lead to anunderstanding of how one fits into the scheme of things.
Oracle: There may be the urge, or the need, to go into a periodof silence or self-negation. Gathering in one’s thoughts in a quietplace can lead to renewed faith and commitment to spiritual
values and therefore better experiences with friends, family
and relationships. For now, life may require you to go withinand examine issues without the noise, clamor and problems ofeveryday life. Solitude can be self-affirming and life strengthening.You can learn a lot about yourself by observing how you spendyour time. Spiritual practice can lead you to new and heightened
states of awareness. Just be careful not to shut yourself away to
such an extent that you feel resentful, lonely and unfulfilled.Watch out that you’re not suppressing joy and spontaneity. Yourphysical needs are very important, as are your spiritual and
emotional needs. Are you looking after the needs of your body?
Are you caring for your physical needs or do you perhaps feel, ifyou're alone, you're not worth the effort? Periods of silence and
chastity can be good as these can heal, inspire and caress youuntil it comes time to return back into the fold of the reality of
the everyday world again. The question is: How long can you staysecluded from others and relationships? Are you going into the‘Convent’ or coming out?
Keywords: Spiritual retreat. Sexual retreat. Losing the libido.Withdrawing without thought of the future. Vows. Renouncing
things. Going within to find answers. Contact with highersources. Faith renewed. Giving up things for a greater cause.Losing identity. Taking on new identities. Sacrifice. Opting out.
The rejection of marriage. Marriage with God. Longing for love
of a higher kind. Maintaining faith. Intense sexual experiences.
The Caution: Self-sacrifice to win sympathy. Neglect of self andhiding away. Nosedives into obscurity. Crisis of faith. Feeling let
down by the world. Bad episodes again and again. Feeling devoid
of emotion. Escaping war. Losing all and seeking sanctuary. Selfdenial. Forgetting how to enjoy life.
Capricorn 24
In confession... we open ourlives to the healing, reconciling,restoring, uplifting grace of Him
who loves us in spite of whatwe are.Louis Cassels
Sometimes the answer toprayer is not that it changes life,
but thatitchanges you.James Dillet Freeman
There are things to confess that
enrich the world, and thingsthat need not be said.Joni Mitchell
When you're not feeling holy '
your loneliness tells you you've
sinned.
Leonard Cohen
It is not easy to be a nun. Itis a life of sacrifice and self-abnegation. It is a life againstnature. Poverty, chastity and
obedience are extremely difficult.
But there are always the graces if
you will pray for them.Kathryn Hulme
I have been studying how I may
compare the prison where I liveunto the world.William Shakespeare
The man who has begun to live
more seriously within begins to
live more simply without.Ernest Hemingway

10-25: AN ORIENTAL RUG DEALERINA
STORE FILLED WITH PRECIOUS
ORNAMENTAL RUGS
Commentary: ‘An Oriental Rug Dealer in a Store Filled WithPrecious Ornamental Rugs’ is an image of the allure and the
beauty of fine things and the appreciation of fine craftsmanship.
‘Precious Ornamental Rugs’ can inspire awe with their beauty andthe fine work, dedication and time that went into making them.The ‘Oriental Rug Dealer’ should believe in the true worth andvalue of the ‘Precious Ornamental Rugs’ he is selling, as thesethings are socially and culturally very valuable and useful. If hedoesn’t really believe in what he’s doing, others won’t respondto his “sales pitch” and his customers will wander off leaving
him alone in the shop. His words and actions may be seen as a
sham of some kind, like a bogus or shifty “used-car salesman”.Honoring one’s work or input into society is a necessary part offeeling that one contributes to the social whole.
Oracle: This Symbol shows the beautiful and yet practical
products that society produces that protect and cushion usfrom hard reality and give a sense of safety, warmth and security.Taking pride in the products of our culture and selling useful andbeautiful things is a responsible position, and the claims that are
made about the products have to be tried and true. Having theknack of buying and selling things is very useful in this situation,but do you believe in what you’re buying or selling? Not taking
somebody seriously because of what they do as a profession
or how they conduct their business can be alienating for all
concerned. There may be the feeling of needing to reassess one’sreal attitudes and ideals. Further, you may feel the need to workwith the physical and mental practices of oriental traditions thatare available.
Keywords: Refinement of cultural understanding and values.
Appreciating excellence of quality. Always looking for a bargain.Buying things at bargain prices and selling them at higher prices.Bartering and trading. Charging a fair price. The sales pitch.Second hand goods. Marketing. Promotions. Sales. Discounts.Closing the sale. Being able to think on your feet.
The Caution: Bargaining only to personal advantage. Givingundue significance to unworthy goods. The archetypal “carsalesman”. Talking to others merely to gain advantage. Not
appreciating the value of one’s goods.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 25
What is a man if he is not a thief
who openly charges as much
as he can for the goods he sells?Mahatma Gandhi
The buyer has need of a hundredeyes, the seller of but one.Proverb
Junk is the ideal product... the
ultimate merchandise. No sales
talk necessary. The client will
crawl through a sewer and begto buy.William S. Burroughs
There are very honest peoplewho do not think that theyhave had a bargain unless
they have cheated a merchant.
Anatole France
Advertising may be describedas the science of arrestingthe human intelligence longenough to get money from it.
Stephen Leacock
All virtue is summed up indealing justly.
Aristotle
Every one lives by selling
something.Robert Louis Stevenson
Here’s the rule for bargains: ‘Do
other men. For they would do
you.’ That's the true businessprecept.Charles Dickens

10-26: A NATURE SPIRIT DANCING IN THE
MIST OF A WATERFALL
Commentary: ‘A Nature Spirit’ is seen ‘Dancing in the Mist of aWaterfall’. The ‘Nature Spirit’ is a carefree and beautiful image ofeffervescence and fun. Nymphs are ‘Nature Spirits’ that live in water;they are divine manifestations of nature: of woods, groves, springs,streams, rivers, etc. The ‘Nature Spirits’ dance in the ‘Mist’ becausethey know to avoid the areas of heavy pressure in the ‘Waterfall’.Even though the strength and power of emotional flow is in themiddle of the ‘Waterfall’, it is not possible to survive under such a
torrent for very long. It is not always good to assault oneself withthe full brunt of pressure from life.
Oracle: This Symbol can represent feelings of emotional lightnessand almost mischievous intentions. The deeper parts of feelings are
sometimes ignored, or rejected, as the ‘Spirit’ flits over the surface of
any troubles. ‘Nature Spirits’ should be carefree and able to expressthemselves as they want. Go with your feelings and don’t worrytoo much about social restrictions. Finding a comfortable and safe
place in a situation or place may be necessary. ‘Dancing’ and goingwith your gut feelings can lift your spirits to new heights. Be aware,
however, that some people may not take your actions seriously. If
you feel like ‘Dancing’, there’s no need to worry that people mightsee you. Indeed, it may be a really good idea for people to see yourlight side, the one that can throw caution to the wind. Whilst this is,essentially, a beautiful Symbol ofa “lightness of being”, there may be
an element of feeling cut off from one’s body, or reality. Whatever,your worries or burdens can lift, leaving you feeling lighter andhappier. Dance in ‘The Mist’, in the gentle mysteries that arise evenin the midst of life’s struggles. That is the true way of the ‘NatureSpirit’; they're not concerned with the inane problems of life.
Keywords: Effervescent spirits or escapism. Dancing in a carefreemanner. Water and fun. Peter Pan characters. Mountains, mists,fog. Reveling in nature. Picking up subtle energies. Being healedbecause of the heightened atmosphere (altitude). Celebrations ofthe natural world. Waterfalls. Water spraying and dripping. Finding
one’s habitat. Chinese water-torture. Water nymphs, fairies and
nature spirits, devas, and angels.
The Caution: Irresponsibility, avoidance of real situations. Not takinganything seriously. Flitting off. Being held down and repressed whenone is longing for light relief. Feeling abused by pressure. Beingsubjugated by cold, icy elements, thoughts or emotions. Tricks orperceptions of the light. Fear of dark places.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 26
SYLPH,n.An immaterial but
visible being that inhabited the
air when the air was an elementand before it was fatallypolluted with factory smoke,sewer gas and similar productsof civilization.Ambrose Bierce
Dance like no one is watching,
Love like you'll never be hurt,
Sing like no one is listening, Livelike it’s heaven on earth.William Purkey
The universe is full of magicalthings patiently waiting for our
wits to grow sharper.
Eden Phillpotts
Discourse on virtue and theypass by in droves. Whistle anddance the shimmy, and you've
got an audience.Diogenes
Light be the earth upon you,
lightly rest.
Euripides
Let your life lightly dance on the
edges of Time like dew on the
tip of a leaf.
Rabindranath Tagore
One must still have chaosin oneself to give birth to a
dancing star.Friedrich Nietzsche

10-27: A MOUNTAIN PILGRIMAGE
Commentary: ‘A Mountain Pilgrimage’ shows the human need
to strive further, to go places that few people go and to take
risks in the hope of reaching a somewhat “exalted” place. Taken
literally, a ‘Mountain Pilgrimage’ can be difficult, risky and evendownright life threatening, especially to those who are old,frail, in ill health or simply unfit. However, the ‘Pilgrimage’ canmanifest on many levels, from wanting to reach and attain the
“highest office” in a company or a country, all the way to desiringand striving for ascension to higher levels of other-worldly orspiritual attainment.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, there may be a need to strive
and to learn more on your path to understanding and fulfillment.
You may feel the desire to follow those who have gone before
you in order to achieve a true sense of inner fulfillment and
achievement. The effort that you have to expend is sometimesgreat, but, then, so can be the rewards. A keen sense of ambitionthat knows few limitations or boundaries, can lead to the top,even though it might be a steep climb. This ‘Pilgrimage’ can signalthe need to get back to the purer elements of life and findingone’s spiritual grounding. The effort involved in the ‘MountainPilgrimage’ can take you away from friends and family, and thosethings that have been familiar and comforting to you. However,you may be surrounded, sometimes above and sometimes below,by people who share the same hopes and visions. These aren’t
necessarily the friends and family that you are used to sharing
your life with, but people you meet up with on the journey. Still,
this may be a lonely journey, whether you are with others or not.Regardless, keep striving - it may be well worth the time andeffort as you work to reach your own ‘Mountain’ top.
Keywords: Ascent in consciousness. Spiritual, material, corporateor political striving. Having an entourage of people (or wantingone). Aloneness and separation. Setting off to somewhere else.Going on a mission. Finding one’s spiritual grounding. Gettingback to the purer elements of life. Ambitions to get to the top.Wanting the highest office in the land.
The Caution: High moral stands with no depth of feeling. Feeling“high above’ others. Feelings of being, or acting like, an ascendedbeing. Haughtiness. Intellectual snobbery. People scrambling forthe top. The “tall poppy” syndrome. Ambitions that know nobounds. People ridiculing others for their lesser position. Spiritualor corporate struggling for position.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 27
Climb mountains to see lowlands.
Chinese Proverb
The man who removes amountain begins by carrying
away small stones.Anon
Success is not counted by howhigh you have climbed but byhow many people you broughtwith you.
Wil Rose
It is the ultimate wisdom of themountains that a man is never
more aman than when he isstriving for what is beyond hisgrasp.James Ramsey Ullman
Do not seek to follow in thefootsteps of the wise. Seek what
they sought.Basho
If you wish to know the roadup the mountain, ask the manwho goes back and forth on it.Zenrin
First there isa mountain, thenthere isno mountain, then there is.Zen Aphorism
Life at the top is financiallyrewarding, spiritually draining,physically exhausting, and short.Peter C. Newman
Ability may get you to the top,
but it takes character to keepyou there.John Wooden

10-28: A LARGE AVIARY
Commentary: ‘A Large Aviary’ is shown. As it is ‘Large’, we can
assume that there are many birds living in it. During the day, the‘Aviary’ is a hive of activity, with the birds jumping around and
chirping and being generally busy. The birds hardly stop, theyjump from one spot to another, whilst communicating with eachother and eating and drinking. The ‘Aviary’ can almost be like abeehive, with lots of noise and high energy. At night, it falls silentwith all the birds sitting asleep on their perches.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, there is likely to be a lot ofchattering, twittering and flitting around going on. Whilst thereis no harm being done, there’s probably nothing much reallybeing achieved. Is this because there is a level of mental confusionhappening? Perhaps this is because things change constantly,
and there’s a lot of noise and distraction. Many “voices” can be
heard in the ‘Large Aviary’, but it can be hard to discern justone particular voice, that is unless that one voice comes fromsomeone who is much larger or very different from the others. Atleast there is likely to be a feeling of brotherhood and not beingalone in your situation. This Symbol can point to situations with
many people; like “birds on perches” everywhere, all speakingat once and having lots to say. Also, although you are able towander a little, you are actually caged into a particular reality.This Symbol can picture the ways of bureaucracy, governmentor big business. Sometimes the telephone and the Internet can
feel like the ‘Large Aviary’, especially if you never get to talk toa real live person!
Keywords: Clairaudience. Hearing many inner voices. Having
a huge entourage or crowd. Tinnitus. Enormous activity. Manypeople living their individual lives in one space. Blocks of flatsand units. Housing estates. Birds, aviaries, bird seed. Perches.People chattering. Girls sharing. Lots to say. Little true content.
Confined living spaces. Communicating solely with those in theimmediate environment. Living in a world of one’s own with no
thought of the realities of how other people live. Having to getalong with others. Caged birds.
The Caution: Mental confusion bringing a lack of discernment.
Too much. chatter with not much being achieved. False senseof freedom. Chattering more than doing. Finding it hard to findpeace, harmony or privacy. Lonely existences. Abandoned livingspaces. Dependence on external sources of nourishment or otherprovisions.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 28
You cannot prevent the birdsof sorrow from flying over your
head, but you can prevent them
from building nests in your hair.Chinese Proverb
I hope you love birds, too. It iseconomical. It saves going to
Heaven.Emily Dickinson
In almost everything thattouches our everyday life onearth, God is pleased when
we're pleased. He wills that webe as free as birds to soar and
sing our maker's praise withoutanxiety.
A. W. Tozer
We are involved in a life that
passes understanding and our
highest business is our daily life.
John Cage
I know why the caged bird
sings, ah me, When his wingis bruised and his bosom sore,
When he beats his bars and he
would be free; It is not a carolof joy or glee, But a prayer thathe sends from his heart's deep
core.Paul Laurence Dunbar
The heart of a woman falls backwith the night, And enters some
alien cage in its plight, And triesto forget it has dreamed of the
stars, While it breaks, breaks,breaks on the sheltering bars.Georgia Douglas Johnson

10-29: A WOMAN READING TEA LEAVES
Commentary: ‘A Woman Reading Tea Leaves’ shows someonelooking into a cup and being able to see and ‘Read’ signs andmeaning in things that most people would never stop to noticeor know how to make sense of. The patterns in the cup “speak”to the woman. There’s no way of knowing how good she is atinterpreting what she sees: She may be a very experienced reader,with a great depth of clairvoyance or intuition, or she may be
trying to see how much she can ‘Read’ into the ‘Tea Leaves’ in asimpler, or experimental way.
Oracle: You may be open to the ability, or the need, for seeing
meaning through the catalyst of the simplest of everyday events.
It seems clear that you will receive messages about your situation
if you are open to “seeing” the signs. The Symbol of the ‘WomanReading Tea Leaves’ shows that such simple things as the ‘TeaLeaves’ in the bottom of your cup are able to give indicators andclues as to what’s coming up in the future or in your life rightnow. One has to put aside skepticism and be able to embracetrust and an intuitive knowing in order to be able to listen to themessages that are all around you. Just be aware that this situationdoesn’t lead to looking for clues to things everywhere you look.You can lose the gift of enjoyment and spontaneity if there is nodiscrimination about where, and how often, you look for guidanceand answers. Don’t take everything verbatim, as the answers thatare given in this situation are often rather symbolic and may needthoughtful interpretation. This may picture a situation where youare able to see these meanings, or it can show that another willperform this for you. Whatever, looking at things from a differentperspective can reveal previously hidden information and truths,often in the simple things around you in the everyday world.
Keywords: Symbolism opening pathways to the spiritual center.Seeing the signs. Seeing signatures in small things that othersmiss. Intuition and clairvoyance. Creative visualization. Tea leavesand coffee grinds. Non verbal cues. Rituals. Tea and sympathy.Fathoming the depths of simple things. Predicting the future.
Seeking guidance and changes of fortune.
The Caution: Reliance on superstition or esoteric advice.Constantly seeking assurance. Taking things literally, not
symbolically. Looking for answers or significance everywhere.Small rewards for talents that should be more respected.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 29
Methods for predicting thefuture: 1) read horoscopes, tealeaves, tarot cards, or crystal
balls... collectively known
as “nutty methods;”2)put
well-researched facts intosophisticated computer...
commonly referred to as “a
complete waste of time.”
Scott Adams
In tea the host is simplicity and
the guest elegance.
Matsudaira Naritada
Tea pot is on, the cups arewaiting, favorite chairsanticipating. No matter what| have to do, my friend there's
always time for you. And there
is no trouble so great and
grave that cannot be much
diminished by a nice cup of tea.Bernard-Paul Theroux
Tea is a cup of life.Great-Grandma Jewel
Where there is tea there is hope.
Sir Arthur Pinero
The art of tea is a spiritual one
for us to share.
Alexandra Stoddart
Matrons, who toss the cupand see the grounds of fate ingrounds of tea.Alexander Pope

10-30: DIRECTORS OF A LARGE FIRM MEET
IN SECRET CONFERENCE
Commentary: ‘Directors of a Large Firm’ are seen ‘Meeting in SecretConference’. The ‘Directors’ come together as there are decisionsto be made and plans to be discussed and pursued. Wherever thosein authority gather, they rule and govern outcomes for themselves
and others. A ‘Large Firm’ can manifest in any area of life—on an
emotional, spiritual or physical level.
Oracle: There can be a feeling of being out of direct control of the
decisions being made by the ‘Directors of a Large Firm’. No matterhow much you are on the “inside”, you may not be hearing all that
is being said. Hence, there’s a need to be cautious about what youpresume, or imagine, to be really going on. Are you involved in aprocess without really knowing the bigger picture? You may be
excluded because you don’t really have enough knowledge of thesystem, or have the authority, to make an informed decision orto call the shots. However, you, or others, may just be “shut out”.
Things kept from others can be very painful, especially when thetruth comes to light. The belief that someone is spying on others, ortalking about them, can lead to a sense of paranoia with suspicion
of the motives pervading the atmosphere. Information may bedeliberately withheld as a way of maintaining power by secrecy.
Call on the appropriate knowledgeable friends or authorities, withthem you may be able to iron out the details. Some may not wantothers to know what’s going on, or is that just how it looks from theoutside? This Symbol can also be about the processing of inner issues
and thoughts. Things may feel out of your control and influenced byunknown forces. Be aware of what’s happening, although you mayfeel as though you are being shut out, you can still make an effort tobe heard or at least make your presence felt. Strategies may need tobe made and carried out in the best way for all involved.
Keywords: Sharing innermost secrets. Confidential information.Masterly control. Big guys calling the shots. Being too busy tosee people of “lesser” importance in your life. Rationing time.
Governments and secrets. Spies. Privy Councils. Planning andplotting. Having a say in things. Doors. Whispers. Records ofmeetings. Important meetings. Boards of directors and secretaries.Conspiracies.
The Caution: Excluding some. Exploiting people or situations.Elitism. Being controlled by those above. Decisions made behindclosed doors. Dark rooms and huddled people talking. Concealing
the truth from others. Cliques and committees. Suspicions ofmotives.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Capricorn 30
Immense power is acquired by
assuring yourself in your secretreveries that you were born to
control affairs.
Andrew Carnegie
Problems can becomeopportunities when the right
people come together.Robert Redford
Determine that the thing canand shall be done, and then weshall find the way.Abraham Lincoln
Every thing secret degenerates,even the administration ofjustice; nothing is safe thatdoes not show how it can beardiscussion and publicity.John Dalberg Acton
A meeting is an event whereminutes are taken and hours
wasted.Anon
Corporation:An ingenious devicefor obtaining individual profit
without individual responsibility.
Ambrose Bierce-The Devil's
Dictionary
Equal opportunity is good, but
special privilege is better.
Anna Chennault
You people are telling me what you think I want to know. I
want to know what is actually happening.Creighton Abrams

11-1: AN OLD ADOBE MISSION IN
CALIFORNIA
Commentary: ‘An Old Adobe Mission in California’ is a symbolof man’s ability to take natural materials from the environmentto build something lasting and enduring that protects, sustainsand nourishes the community on every level. The ‘Old Adobe
Missions’ were built in the early days of California in an attempt
to bring civilization to this wild area. Although these ‘Missions’
hold a certain romance in history, people have polarized
perspectives of their actual significance. There’s the romanticcolonial version of altruistic Spanish missionaries and soldierslaboring to bring religion and European culture to the backwardnative peoples, and then there’s the revisionist version: whiteintruders subjugating and persecuting the Indians, indoctrinating
them with religion, killing them off with strange new diseases
and obliterating their culture. Somewhere in the middle, the truthcan most likely be found.
Oracle: Sometimes it’s easy to assume that one’s beliefs areright and that others need to be shown the “real truth” or abetter way to live their life. Efforts sometimes need to be turned
toward creating the infrastructure to pursue our beliefs and way
of life and this can enrich everyone’s lives. There is a need for
the provision of faith, love and shelter to those who require it.
However, the effort may be too big for some and may leave themfeeling “homesick”, “homeless” or without a cause. It may be a
case of someone trying to change or dominate the core beliefs of
someone else, causing emotional restriction and pain. The truthto be remembered is that contributing to other's lives and caringabout people in a community is not about control, but acceptance
of, and reverence for, each person’s divinity. There’s no need for
strict conformity, manipulation or pretension here.
Keywords: Spiritual retreats in natural surroundings. Findingnew areas to work with spirit. Creating civilization out of naturalelements. Hard work to create places of sanctuary and learning.Places once revered now tourist attractions. Forging links to new
worlds. Missions and missionaries. Bringing faith to the “newworld”. Brotherhoods. Places that house and protect.
The Caution: Dogmatism. Pushing beliefs and ideas on others.Believing one’s spiritual and religious beliefs contain all the
answers. Taking over others' lives. Moving in and taking control.
Monuments to the past sagging and fading. People moving in on
others. Cults. Indoctrination.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 1
A pile of rocks ceases tobe a rock when somebodycontemplates it with the idea ofa cathedral in mind.Antoine de Saint-Exupéry
If a man cannot be a Christianin the place where he is,he cannot be a Christiananywhere.Henry Ward Beecher
When the missionaries came to
Africa they had the Bible andwe had the land. They said, “Letus pray” We closed our eyes.
When we opened them we hadthe Bible and they had the land.Desmond Tutu
The belief that there is onlyone truth and that oneself is inpossession of it seems to me thedeepest root of all evil that is inthe world.Max Born
It is easier to pull down than to
build up.
Proverb
In the beginning was the word
and it was misunderstood.Native American Saying
Claim the vicinity in the nameof divinity.Steve Tripp

11-2: AN UNEXPECTED THUNDERSTORM
Commentary: ‘An Unexpected Thunderstorm’ symbolizessomething coming out of the blue. It may be sudden, confronting,overwhelming and somewhat frightening. Thunderstorms,especially those that are ‘Unexpected’, are awesome powerhousesof energy that can unleash incredible levels of tension and release.However, ‘Thunderstorms’ often clear the air after an extremebuildup of energy, and can leave us with a sense of awe andwonder at the extreme power, majesty and beauty of naturalevents. Flashes of clarity often come like bolts of lightning thatshoot through one’s mind, spirit and body. When the air clears,there can be a purging or clearing up of issues through incrediblestates of illumination.
Oracle: You may find that you are suddenly tested, taken bysurprise or something shattering arises. This can overtake andoverawe your sense of stability, and can happen when you leastexpect it. Perhaps you saw signs of something big coming, butdidn’t quite know what to expect, or what was going to beunleashed. Your inner strength and stability is likely to be putto the test however you can learn a lot from the experience,especially if you strive to stay at the center of the ‘Storm’ andnot get swept up and away by it. In fact, the effect can be quiteliberating, after the initial shock. The best course of action to takeis to not panic, but to see your true place in the scheme of thingsand help others cope with what’s going on. You may need to letgo of control in this situation, as trying to be in charge of what’shappening may well be impossible. Endeavor to be a conduit forthe unleashed energy in some way; let the energy run through
you and into the ground. Stay with the feeling of grounding theenergy as much as possible. When the 'Storm' passes, assess whatyou can fix up.
Keywords: Sudden visitations of natural wonder. Something thatdrops on you, seemingly from out of nowhere. Things eruptingand happening fast. Storms in a teacup. Shocks and confrontationswith raw energy. Thunder, lightning and electricity. The Towercard of the tarot. Being a lightning rod. Water and rain that
quenches and revives. Things being unleashed.
The Caution: Losing control without warning. Emotionalinstability. A “back draft” of emotions. Bottling up and blowingup. Confused by sudden outbursts. Loud bangs and crashes thatshock and stun. Seizing up with fear. Sudden unleashing ofemotions. Hurricanes of messy energy.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 2
The cosmos comes forth from
The Eternal, and moves In Him.With His power it reverberates,like thunder crashing in the sky.Those who realize Him passbeyond the sway of death.
Upanishads
Lightning is the shorthand of astorm, and tells of chaos.Eric Mackay
Clouds that thunder do notalways rain.Armenian Proverb
Do not the most movingmoments of our lives find us
without words?
Marcel Marceau
Times of general calamity and
confusion create great minds.
The purest ore is producedfrom the hottest furnace, andthe brightest thunderbolt iselicited from the darkest storms.
Charles Caleb Colton
Quiet minds cannot beperplexed or frightened but go
on in fortune or misfortune at
their own private pace, likeaclock during a thunderstorm.Robert Louis Stevenson
It is the flash which appears, thethunderbolt will follow.Voltaire

11-3: A DESERTER FROM THE NAVY
STANDS SUDDENLY AWARE OF
A DAWNING TRUTH: FREEDOM IS
NEVER THE RESULT OF COMPROMISE
Commentary: ‘A Deserter From the Navy Stands Suddenly Aware ofaDawning Truth: Freedom is Never the Result of Compromise’ shows
someone who’s come to the conclusion that staying in a situationthat stretches, tests or ‘Compromises’ his needs, desires and valuesin some way is not worth the energy that has to go into it. Like being
in the ‘Navy’, perhaps he had signed up for something for the long
haul. He was expected to fulfill some employment, destiny, mission,
or perhaps staying committed to a relationship. Now there’s been
a realization that the mold cast for him just doesn’t work. It doesn’t
satisfy his inner desires and longings. He may have been able to adjustto the situation for a while, but the time has come when he has toleave, bail out or jump ship.
Oracle: A decision to opt out may be based on moral or ethical
grounds, where someone doesn’t want to perform some duty or
act because it is against their principles, or in order to maintain asense of free spirit, mobility or independence. You may find thatthe rigorous restraints and rules of the situation are no longercomfortable, bearable or tolerable. This can be about you, or it canbe about someone (or something) else. Being “signed-up” to some
commitment can be restricting, limiting and sometimes confronting.There can be a feeling of being taken away from loved ones, homeand family for a reason you don’t really understand and not wanting
to accept the pressures of separation. However, it could be the exact
opposite—home and family life can be too constricting and there
may be a desire to leave to pursue another, more independent life.
However, there are always consequences for opting out, running
away or not playing the game. Are you prepared for them? Is there a‘Sudden’ realization, ‘A Dawning Truth’ that what you’ve been doingis not necessarily what you want to be doing?
Keywords: Rebellion. Leaving, although allegiance had been pledged.Opting out because of pressure, harassment or bullying. Taking risksto get out of a dangerous/destructive/alienating situation. Being leftbehind by someone who’s “jumped ship”. Going AWOL. Standing bypersonal truths. Refusing compromise.
The Caution: Not playing by the rules of socially structured games.Self-ruin. Refusal to face social consequences. Not turning up.
Withdrawing support in a physical, emotional or spiritual way.Blowing security. Rats deserting the sinking ship.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 3
I had examined myself pretty
thoroughly and discovered that! was unfit for military service.Joseph Heller—Catch 22
A man must consider what rich
realm he abdicates when hebecomes a conformist.Ralph Waldo Emerson
His secret realization of his
physical cowardice led him tounderrate his exceptional moralcourage.Vera Brittain
COWARD, n: one who, ina
perilous emergency, thinks with
his legs.
Ambrose Bierce
I was court-martialed in my
absence, and sentenced to
death in my absence, so! saidthey could shoot me in myabsence.Brendan F. Behan
There are two freedoms — the
false, where a man is free to
do what he likes; and the true,
where he is free to do what heought.Charles Kingsley
The brave man inattentive tohis duty is worth little more to
his country than the cowardwho deserts in the hour ofdanger.Andrew Jackson

11-4: A HINDU HEALER GLOWS WITH A
MYSTIC HEALING POWER
Commentary: ‘A Hindu Healer’ is someone capable of natural,alternative and sometimes miraculous 'Healing'. He ‘Glows’ with
‘A Mystic Healing Power’ and inspires others to greater heights of‘Healing’, understanding and 'Power' within themselves. A ‘HinduHealer’ channels the energy of God to manifest the ‘Healing’process. There may be a need to heal wounds, illness, trauma,or some other affected part of the body or mind. There is oftenthe sense of having to sacrifice for another. It can feel as thoughthe ‘Healer’ has a cleansed and enlightened soul together witha sense of purity.
Oracle: This pictures being ‘Healed’ by someone who hasundertaken the rituals of learning, self-sacrifice and self-knowledge. The ‘Hindu Healer’ can pass on the benefits of thisknowledge to the unwell through ‘Healing’ and purification. Youmay not be having much success in solving problems logically andrationally at the moment. The message is to look to your spiritualcenter for genuine, lasting solutions. This requires focus, practiceand determination. You can heal yourself or others in some way by
using traditional spiritual methods. It could be that someone can
offer these methods to you, and this person could have a special
aura about them. Natural ‘Healing’ methods of any kind are likelyto work well in this situation as this ‘Hindu Healer Glows With
a Mystic Healing Power’. ‘Healers’ of any type are likely to enteryour life at this time. Indeed, your own healing ability may berevealed to you. This is true especially if you concentrate yourenergies on the issue that needs help. There may be a need to
leave the pressures of modern society for spaces that are muchcalmer, more spiritual or self-focused. Take some time and effortto tune in as the ‘Healing’ experience is occurring. Indeed, a‘Mystic Healing’ experience could descend over you and change
your life forever.
Keywords: Divine healing potency. Natural healing methods.
Going on faith. Humility in the face of greatness. Yogis andfakirs. Finding one’s center. Healers of all kinds. Glowing health.Radiating love, spirit and calm. Tapping vast reservoirs of healing
forces. Reverence for simple methods. Auras that radiate. Urinetherapy. Pranic energy. Yogis. Reiki healing
The Caution: False claims of powers. Charlatans. Claims ofhealing that are just manipulation. Snake-oil salesmen. Trickswith smoke and mirrors. What to trust, what to believe? Orthodoxhealing methods failing to cure. Feeling invincible.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 4
The doctor is to be feared more
than the disease.
Latin Proverb
Just because your doctor has a
name for your condition doesn’tmean he knows what it is.Anon
Physician heal thyself.The Bible
You already have the preciousmixture that will make you well.Use it.Rumi
Prayer, like radium, is aluminous and self-generatingform of energy.Alexis Carel
It requires a great deal of faith
fora man to be cured by his
own placebos.John L.McClenahan
Natural forces within us are
the true healers of disease.Hippocrates
Medicine can only cure curablediseases, and then not always.Chinese Proverb
It takes a wise doctor to knowwhen not to prescribe.Baltasar Gracian
Nature is better than a middlingdoctor.
Chinese Proverb

11-5: A COUNCIL OF ANCESTORS HAS
BEEN CALLED TO GUIDE A MAN
Commentary: The ‘Council of Ancestors Has Been Called toGuide a Man’ implies faith, trust and hope in the wisdom andunderstanding of those who have gone before. The wisdom of the‘Council of Ancestors’ is often invoked in tribal spiritual practice.With this Symbol, whenever there is a need for guidance, wisdom
or knowledge, whether it is in the present or from the spirit world,the energy of the elders can ‘Guide’ us. This ‘Guidance’ often comesfrom the ‘Ancestors’ who have passed on, but can also originatefrom the knowledgeable ones that are still among us.
Oracle: This Symbol reflects the energy and influence that is
always available to us through spiritual practice, meditation and
the willingness to seek help. You will find you are strengthened
by the wisdom of precedent; that which has gone before. There is
so much understanding available through the experienced elders
and this is what needs to be tapped, experienced, followed and
honored in some way. The ‘Council of Ancestors’ holds a storehouseof knowledge and experience and this image suggests that they arebeing called on to lead and ‘Guide’ you. An issue out of the past
may need to be brought to the present day and this can securemuch needed guidance and protection. Those who are older and
probably wiser in some measure have something valuable to teachus and the time is probably right for this to come through now.However, sometimes things from the past really belong in the past.
What the truth of the matter really is needs to be assessed by thoseinvolved. Whatever, getting the “authorities” on your side will help
you achieve what you want. Listening and learning from thoseabove will lead, one day, to you being able to take charge in your
own good time. Sooner or later, you may find yourself invited to
join this ‘Council’, taking your own place of authority.
Keywords: Inner knowledge. Instruction. Direct tap roots to deep
sources of energy. Karmic connections with the past. The placeone comes from. Ancient wisdom versus “old fogies”. Parents andgrandparents. Families and family lineage. Proving bloodlines.Committees, boards and councils. Memories of those who’vegone before. The Akashic records.
The Caution: Reliance on conservatism. Obsolete boards ofauthority. Not being able to move with the times. Needing the nod
of approval from others to validate what one’s doing. Not being
free to do what one wants. Having to please the elders in someway. Bound by family or past-life karma. Nagging negativity. Oldfashioned views that limit expansion.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 5
We do not inherit the land fromour ancestors; we borrow itfrom our children.Native American Proverb
It is indeed a desirable thing
to be well descended, but the
glory belongs to our ancestors.Plutarch
Others have done it before me.1 can, too.Corporal John Faunce
Behind every able man, there
are always other able men.Chinese Proverb
I write to keep in contact with
our ancestors and to spread
truth to people.Sonia Sanchez
One cool judgment is worth athousand hasty councils. Thething is to supply light and not
heat.Woodrow Wilson
Every man serves a usefulpurpose:A miser, for example,makes a wonderful ancestor.Laurence J. Peter
Humans are not proud of their
ancestors, and rarely invitethem round to dinner.Douglas Adams
Some families can trace their
ancestors back three hundredyears, but can’t tell you wheretheir children were last night.Anon

11-6: A MASKED FIGURE PERFORMS
RITUALISTIC ACTS IN A MYSTERY PLAY
Commentary: ‘A Masked Figure Performs Ritualistic Acts in aMystery Play’ shows someone playing a role in some kind of ‘Act’
or drama. This can be for the sake of ‘Ritual’, or it can convey a storyor message to those observing. Churchmen on church premisesperformed the original ‘Mystery Plays’ in Latin. They depicted suchsubjects as the Creation, Adam and Eve, the murder of Abel, and theLast Judgment. As time went on, the ‘Plays’ left the Church and tookto the cities and the once strictly religious themes changed into lessreverent themes. Nowadays, ‘Mystery Plays’ are rather different.
Oracle: In the situation facing you it seems there are ‘Mysteries’ in
the themes that are being played out, perhaps to the point where it’snot clear exactly what’s going on and who, or what, the actors, the
‘Masked Figures’, truly are. However, it may be that the audience, andthis can be you or someone else, is not really supposed to know theins and outs of what’s really going on. It can feel that everything andeveryone is not quite how they seem. Issues of faith and trust may
come up. There could be the sense that you are not being shown
the true face of the situation. Look to see who the performers are in
this ‘Mystery’. Are you part of the ‘Play’ or are you in the audience?Sometimes people have a need or desire to be cautious in what
they reveal of themselves to others. Does someone in this situationfind it necessary to put on an ‘Act’ in order to cover up their real
intentions, emotions or reactions? It’s quite likely that false motiveswill eventually be uncovered, so be wary of what actions are taken,
and be cautious with what’s said. There may be a desire to perform
some kind of ‘Ritual’ or ‘Act’, even if you're not sure what you're doingor where it will lead you. This can picture someone living out his
or her life in a type of ‘Mystery’ or charade and not really knowingwhat turn life is going to take next. There may be concerns abouthow one truly fits into the story that’s being played out.
Keywords: Rituals. Shamanism. Archetypes of personality. Puttingona show. Portrayals of performances that don’t always add-up. Theunmasking of someone. Comedy. Banditry. Mystery. Drama. Acting.Rituals. Executioner’s masks. Smoke screens. Doing the technicalbut not the emotional. Saying or doing things because they “should”.Having alternate personalities.
The Caution: Neurotic performances. Putting on superficial acts.Carrying out “rituals” without being aware of why. Sticking totradition. Unwilling to admit to changing times. Not knowing whothe players are or what the plot is. Being unsure of direction. Lying.
Cover-ups. Deceptions. Tricks. Ploys to manipulate.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 6
My life has a superb cast but
I can’t figure out the plot.
Ashleigh Brilliant
My life has a brilliant plot but!
can't figure out the cast.Lynda Hill
Hope for the best. Expect theworst. Life is a play. We’reunrehearsed.
Mel Brooks
Life is not a dress rehearsal.
Rose Tremain
It is not whether you really cry.
It’s whether the audience thinksyou are crying.Ingrid Bergman
We wear the mask that grinsand lies, It hides our cheeks andshades our eyes, This debt wepay to human guile ...But letthe world dream otherwise, We
wear the mask!
Paul Laurence Dunbar
Real life seems to have no plots.
Ivy Compton Burnett
People don’t change. Only theircostumes do.Gene Moorse
I liked myself better when |wasn't me.Carol Burnett

11-7: A CHILD BORN OUT OF AN
EGGSHELL
Commentary: ‘A Child Born Out of An Eggshell’ shows somethingbeing ‘Born’ in a way that was probably never expected; it is ‘BornOut Of An Eggshell’. Alchemists saw the ‘Egg’ as the container forboth matter and thought. This led to the concept of the CosmicEgg or World Egg, a cosmic symbol in many traditions. The vaultof space came to be seen as an ‘Egg’, and this ‘Egg’ consisted ofseven layers, each enfolding the other, showing the seven heavensor spheres. The Chinese believed that the first man sprung froman ‘Egg’. This image is around us in many ways, from invitrofertilization to human cloning.
Oracle: This Symbol signifies innovative ways of doing things,
with new directions and new solutions. You need to find a unique
approach that will give you the ability to follow unusual and
original paths leading to a new emergence. There’s the possibilityof unleashing rebellious energy, so make sure that this beginningdoesn’t start off with any precocious or “spoilt” attitudes. It isimportant to provide nourishing environments in order to growand learn, and nourishment must be provided to last through thecourse of the development. There can be an uneasy or unsurefeeling about the viability of your situation. Many ideas or projects
die because they don’t have enough initial capital or support or
dedication to last the distance. It may be something out of the
ordinary or slightly odd. Don’t let this scare you; try to recognize
the potential rewards and see what you can learn from it. ThisSymbol can also show prejudice or fear of things that are different.
There may be the need to be more consciously tolerant towardspeople or situations no matter their origins or backgrounds. This
can also represent the gestation of an idea, process or project
that’s outside your direct influence.
Keywords: Transmutation. The birth of a new creative original
impulse. Incubated ideas coming to fruition. Genetic engineering.
Invitro fertilization. People beyond their time. Mutations. Seeking
the unusual. The unexpected birth. The desire to have children.The nurturing egg. Emerging in a unique way. The matrix and
the casket. The struggle to break free. Genetic engineering.Indigo children. Children that seem unrelated to their parents.Adoption.
The Caution: Being different only to follow fashion. Afraid ofnew ideas. Lack of support. Spoilt and naive attitudes. Rebellion.
Uneasiness. Prejudice and racial stereotypes. Refusing to believeeven what the eyes can see.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 7
In the beginning, all the universe
was non-being. It became being.It grew and formed an egg,which remained unbroken forayear. Then it broke open. Of thetwo haives of the shell, one wasof silver and the other of gold.The Upanishads
First there was the Great Cosmic
Egg. Inside the egg was chaos.Floating in the chaos was P’anKu, the undeveloped divineembryo.Huai-nan Tzu
The creator, Awonawilona,thought himself into being.Zuni Indian Saying
‘Ex ovo omnia.’ Everything froman egg.
William Harvey
Man's main task in life is to givebirth to himself, to become whathe potentially is.
Erich Fromm
We are all cells in the same bodyof humanity.Peace Pilgrim
The shell must break before thebird can fly.Lord Alfred Tennyson
Do not compute the totality of
your poultry population until allthe manifestations of incubationhave been entirely completed.
William Jennings Bryan

11-8: BEAUTIFULLY GOWNED WAX
FIGURES ON DISPLAY
Commentary: ‘Beautifully Gowned Wax Figures on Display’pictures a situation of the enjoyment, even the glorifying, ofphysical beauty, shape and form. When we see ‘BeautifullyGowned Wax Figures’ it can be rather startling; we may getcaught out for a moment, thinking they are real flesh and blood.These ‘Wax Figures’ can be like “mannequins” in a store windowor they can be people who fuss and care about how they lookmore than care how they relate as real human beings.
Oracle: It is not enough to just look and play a part; we mustknow and live that part as well. Although there may be the desireto present one’s self in a beautiful and manicured way, it is alsonecessary to know how to “walk your talk”. Being well rehearsedand fully aware of fulfilling one’s role can lead to people being
pleased and impressed with this ‘Display’. This Symbol can alsoshow elements of a situation that are too superficial, drivenexternally by society or events, or have only been allowed to havea shallow influence. Something, or someone, may look good on
the outside for some time, but what’s truly going on inside? Areissues of ‘Beauty’ involved, here? Or “heart-less-ness”? There’soften the choice of hiding one’s internal feelings in a displayof elegance, beauty or fashion, however, being stiff, uncaringand robotic can lead to people being alienated or disillusioned.
External appearances need the heart’s warmth to give life; iswarmth missing in this situation? If there’s plenty of substanceinvolved, the display of ‘Beauty’ will bring nothing but good.
Keywords: Setting standards. Exemplars of social ritual. Superficial
values on display. Superficial beauty or avatars of fashion? Notshowing true feelings. Beauty salons, modeling. Judging a book byits cover. No substance. Pretty on the outside. Positions of power
and privilege that seem unreal. Models. Beauty and its allure. Storedummies. Money spent on appearances. Always having to lookgood. The need for real flesh and blood responses.
The Caution: Putting on a false front. Expecting to be noticed.Acting “wooden” about something. Not contributing anything ofreal value. Beauty that has no “voice”. Lack of depth and integrity.Fake responses. Acting only for social acceptance. Bloodlessrealities. Lifeless figures. Obsession with beauty and fashion.Judging others without regard for their humanity. Emotionless
realities. Being a "Handbag" wife or husband.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 8
In order to be irreplaceable onemust always be different.Coco Chanel
One should either be a work ofart, or wear a work of art.
Oscar Wilde
People see you as an object, notas a person, and they projecta set of expectations onto you.People who don’t have it thinkbeauty is a blessing, but actuallyit sets you apart.
Candice Bergen
Fashion is a potency in art,
making it hard to judge between
the temporary and the lasting.E.C. Stedman
Nothing’s beautiful from every
point of view.Horace
Clothes make the man.
Latin Proverb
It is an interesting questionhow far men would retaintheir relative rank if they weredivested of their clothes.Henry David Thoreau
Clothes make the man. Naked
people have little or no influence
in society.
Mark Twain
You may turn into an archangel,a fool, or a criminal;no one
will see it. But when a button ismissing, everyone sees that.Erich M. Remarque

11-9: A FLAG IS SEEN TURNING INTO AN
EAGLE
Commentary: A ‘Flag Turning Into an Eagle’ represents
nationalistic ideals and values being taken to their highest level.The ‘Flag’ and the ‘Eagle’ are both symbolic representationsof these strong ideals. The ‘Flag’ is a pictorial representationof a nation or a country’s spirit, and the ‘Eagle’ is the physical
manifestation of that spirit. As ‘the Flag’ turns into ‘the Eagle’, the
feeling of spirit is transformed into a physical expression of that
ideal; they are made physical and become more realistic.
Oracle: This Symbol reflects the need or desire for our inner
thoughts to become manifest into daily life practice. Your corebeliefs can be seen as your ‘Flag’ and your announcements ofand allegiance to them is like the ‘Eagle’. You may find that you
are being asked to no longer just project an image, but to ownyour own true power. In more dramatic situations, one may feellike they have been reborn, or suddenly become more motivatedor inspired to carry through actions that they have previouslyonly thought about. However, not everybody will agree with orbelieve in the ideals behind one’s actions and words. Someonemay be “blowing their horn” about issues that others might notwant to salute. Be aware that although you may have experienceda personal transformation, not everyone will be keen to hear
about it in great detail. Others may be thrilled at your successes
and want to hear all about them. On the other hand, you maybe doing a lot more talking than action, but that will most likelychange soon. Be sure to retain your modesty and gauge others’reactions accordingly. With a positive focus you can watch yourideas take flight.
Keywords: Turning away from having to prove oneself. Risingabove the commonplace. Ascension. Rebirth. Homespun truth.
Ideals that uplift and free. Shouting joy from the treetops. Boosts inself-esteem. Strength. Transformation. Plans taking shape. Powerand might. Conveying images of strength and fidelity. Declaringvisions and dreams. Totems. Strong displays of independence andfreedom. Announcements. High flight.
The Caution: Forcefully displaying private beliefs. Swallowingadvertising or propaganda. Believing the party line. Blowing yourown horn. Bragging. Sudden mood swings. Arrogance. Throwingone’s weight around. Threatening others with loud displays ofmight. Bullying. Talking over the top of others. Not listeningbecause of righteousness.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 9
It is not good enough for things
to be planned, they still have
to be done; for the intention tobecome a reality, energy has tobe launched into operation.Pir Vilayat Khan
Let us raise a standard to which
the wise and honest can repair;the rest is in the hands of God.George Washington
You can put wings on a pig, but
you don’t make it an eagle.
Bill Clinton
Aim for the highest.
Andrew Carnegie
If |have freedom in my love,And in my soul am free, Angels
alone that soar above, Enjoysuch liberty.Richard Lovelace
The chasm between the
principles upon which thisGovernment was founded, in
which it still professes to believe,and those which are dailypracticed under the protection
of the flag, yawn wide and deep.Mary Church Terrell
This is an importantannouncement. This is flight121 to Los Angeles. Ifyour travelplans today do not includeLos Angeles, now would bea perfect time to disembark.Douglas Adams

11-10: A MAN WHO HAD FOR ATIME
BECOME THE EMBODIMENT OF AN
IDEAL IS MADE TO REALIZE THAT AS
A PERSON HE IS NOT THIS IDEAL
Commentary: ‘A Man Who Had For a Time Become the Embodimentof an Ideal is Made to Realize That as a Person He is Not This Ideal’shows the dawning of the understanding that one cannot always liveup to one’s own expectations, let alone the expectations of others.The ‘Person’ involved in this issue may have been put on a pedestal,looked up to in some way and thought very highly of. On the otherhand, he may have been putting on a false show to get some kind ofresponse from others. Now there’s been a ‘Realization’ - somethinghas happened and there’s an adjustment of beliefs, feelings, responses
and expectations.
Oracle: You may be looking at yourself, or someone else, anddiscovering that things are not as ‘Ideal’ as you perhaps thought.The important thing to ‘Realize’, or remember, is that true depthof character and self-worth does not always equate with having the
popular support of others. Also, we often project what we want to
see onto both ourselves and others and this may not have much to do
with the actual core of the real person. Having said that, there can beimmense disappointment and disillusionment when someone doesn’t
live up to their promises or responsibilities. It’s important not to getdisheartened by the ‘Realization’ that someone isn’t as perfect as wasonce thought; instead, consider ways to restore faith. Staying true toone’s own ‘Ideals’ is the aim here. On a personal level, there can beperiods of feeling worthless, unloved and falling into depression withfeelings of failure and despair. However, there are often wonderful
opportunities for "self disclosure” here. Read the signs and learn
more about yourself as well as others. This Symbol can also showopportunities that are merely fleeting, like being idolized or famousfor “five minutes” and then falling from grace.
Keywords: Staying true to oneself. Ideas that look great for a time,but lose their gloss. Lost opportunities. Waking up just in time.
Depression. Self-esteem issues. Projections of personality. Not clearly
seeing people. Realizing that people have changed. False expectations.Falling off the pedestal. Finding one's core identity.
The Caution: Clinging to false feelings of fame. Not acceptingthat things have moved on or changed. Disillusionment anddisappointment. Losing one’s faith. Religious questions and doubts.Aiming too high. Reversals of fortune. Idols and idolizing. Self pity.Giving up. Being slammed by others.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 10
In recognizing the humanityof our fellow beings, we pay
ourselves the highest tribute.Thurgood Marshall
Better be ill spoken of by onebefore all than by all before one.Scottish Proverb
A free society is a place where
it’s safe to be unpopular.
Adlai Stevenson
Those whom the godswould destroy they first call“promising.”
Jan Carew
Glory is fleeting, but obscurity is forever.Napoleon Bonaparte
Shun praise. Praise leads to self-delusion. Thy body is notSelf, thy SELF is in itself withouta body, and either praise or
blame affects it not.H.P. Blavatsky
It took me along time not to
judge myself through someone
else’s eyes.
Sally Field
An actor's popularity is
fleeting. His success has the life
expectancy of a small boy whois about to look into a gas tank
with a lighted match.
Fred Allen

11-11: DURING A SILENT HOUR, AMAN
RECEIVES A NEW INSPIRATION
WHICH MAY CHANGE HIS LIFE
Commentary: ‘During a Silent Hour, a Man Receives a NewInspiration’ shows someone taking some time out to contemplate,meditate, or just be by themselves. He ‘Receives a New Inspiration’:he has a thought, an idea or an ‘Inspiration’ that is the answer toa dilemma or provides clues of how to proceed with something.This ‘New Inspiration May Change His Life'—he’s had some deep
understanding and it is likely to turn his life around.
Oracle: This Symbol shows the benefits of “getting away from itall” in order to reassess your life and goals. This ‘Silent Hour’ couldbe a short minute, a few hours, or a period of days, etc. What the
Symbol shows is that a ‘New Inspiration’ will be 'Received'. You may
have found that despite racking your brains there’s been no rational
guidance available. It’s important to realize that a lot of internal aswell as external noise needs to be quieted. The rational mind can
be noisy and tends to interfere with the flow of the imaginationor intuition. You need to slow down and open up to the messagesof your inner ‘Inspiration’. By reducing the external noise, clutterand distraction, your mind can focus on what is essential, ratherthan what may just be convenient. This Symbol shows that thereis an answer coming, which will probably change many things,
or at least change what most needs to be changed. This can alsoimply the need for a shift of some kind, and this may have beenforgotten, or neglected, because of preoccupations with social
matters, or being too busy. Listen for clues: It may not be externalvoices that bring this ‘New Inspiration’ but the voices within. Ifthere is difficulty blocking out the hustle and bustle of everyday
life, meditation or delving into your dreams or fantasies may leadto the solution.
Keywords: Welling creative power. Inspiration = breathing in
the spirit. Coming to terms with one’s reality. Visionary peopleand events. Being reborn. Spiritual awakenings. Meditation and
reflective thought. Intuitive awareness rising up into conscious
awareness. Spending time alone, thinking. Contemplation.
Reversals. Flashes of insight.
The Caution: Exclusion of others. Obsession with one’s objectives.Being a hermit. Hearing voices. Feeling trapped. Shooting off inall directions. Dropping things without resolution. Cutting off
from life. Constantly changing directions. Regretting the past.Not moving on.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 11
It is in your moments of decisionthat your destiny is shaped.
Anthony Robbins
They are never alone who areaccompanied by noble thoughts.Philip Sidney
Silence at the proper season iswisdom, and better than anyspeech.Plutarch
Those who dream by day arecognizant of many things
which escape those who dream
only by night.Edgar Allen Poe
Imagination is the outreachingof mind... the bombardment
of the conscious mind withideas, impulses, images
and every sort of psychic
phenomena welling up from
the preconscious. It is the
capacity to “dream dreams and
see visions ...”
Rollo May
God is the friend of silence. Seehow nature—trees, flowers,grass-grows in silence;see thestars, the moon and the sun,how they move in silence... Weneed silence to be able to touchsouls,Mother Teresa
The universe is full of magicalthings patiently waiting for our
wits to grow sharper.
Eden Phillpots

11-12: PEOPLE ON A VAST STAIRCASE,
GRADUATED UPWARDS
Commentary: ‘People On a Vast Staircase, Graduated Upwards’is a Symbol of people operating or standing at different levels. As
they are ‘Graduated Upwards’ some are higher up whilst some
are lower down the ladder, or ‘Staircase’. The ‘People’ picturedhere may be looking up at those above, peering down at those
below, or just observing their place in the scheme of things. The‘Staircase’ in the movie “Titanic” is a good example of how thisSymbol can operate, with those with wealth and power going offin one direction and those in a lesser position going in another.
Oracle: You may be seeking to find your place in the scheme
of things. Striving for the top is wonderful, and achieving your
own successes is admirable, and the climb up will probably bring
the rewards you need. Be careful not to concern yourself with
thoughts of “who’s in front” or “who’s behind”. It’s probably of noreal consequence. Concentrating on your own position and whereyou want to go will bring happiness and success. No matter what
your status, and regardless of what others are doing, be patientand trust that you and yours are heading in the right direction.This Symbol doesn’t always involve outright competition,
although it can. It can show the consequence of the layers ofthe class system, which can be rewarding to some, but alienating
to others. Be careful of the “rungs” you are climbing, one that
isn’t secure can have you in a risky or compromising situation.Being at the bottom, or even at the top can lead to problems. It’snot useful to consider your present position unimportant. Being
expendable is not a good thing. Accept your position as it is now
and work towards and look forward to a promotion to both your
place and the wisdom that is yet to come.
Keywords: Observing life from different levels. Social gradationsand graduations. Working class to aristocracy. Orders from above,
in any sense of the meaning. Waiting for one’s turn at the top.Politics. Big business. Multilevel marketing. Gradual upwardclimbs. Competitiveness. Stairs and ladders. Taking life step by
step. Admiring success. Promotions. Corporate ladders.
The Caution: Nervous worry about social position. Snobberybecause of monetary, intellectual or social status. Can imply class,
creed or racial prejudice. Climbing the ladder of success withoutcare for those who are supplanted. Unsafe heights. Falling fromgrace. Denigrating or undermining others. Snakes and ladders.Rarefied atmospheres.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 12
Stairs are climbed step by step.Kurdish Proverb
You cannot push anyone upthe ladder unless he is willing toclimb himself.Andrew Carnegie
One man’s ceiling is anotherman’s floor.David Levine
Never look down on anybodyunless you’re helping him up.The Rev. Jesse Jackson
Don't bother just to be betterthan your contemporaries orpredecessors. Try to be better
than yourself.
William Faulkner
The rung of a ladder was never
meant to rest upon, but only tohold a man’s foot long enough
to enable him to put the othersomewhat higher.
Thomas Henry Huxley
The higher one climbs on
the spiritual ladder, the morethey will grant others theirown freedom, and give lessinterference to another's stateof consciousness.Paul Twitchell
Always be nice to people on theway up; because you'll meet thesame people on the way down.Wilson Mizner

11-13: A BAROMETER
Commentary: ‘A Barometer’ is shown. The word ‘Barometer’comes from the Greek “baros”, meaning weight. It measuresatmospheric pressure by responding to fluctuations. In weatherforecasting, the ‘Barometer’ is used to signify and help the analysis
of weather producing pressure systems. A storm is generally
anticipated when the ‘Barometer’ is falling rapidly; when the‘Barometer’ is rising, fair weather may usually be expected.
Oracle: You may feel the need to plan for future action and to
know what to expect or at least anticipate. This can picture asituation where there’s the task of being a “translator” of what’sgoing on in the environment. You will find in your own sensitivity
to the environment, and to the people around you, the veryinstrument that can sense how they’re feeling or what’s coming
up next. Watching, waiting and feeling out the atmosphere before
taking any action will lead to the best answer. Observing other’sreactions will provide clues, as well. Once you know which wayto move with this situation, you'll be able to go straight for theobjective, so take a little time to sniff things out. Perhaps someone
else is doing this, watching and waiting. It may be that they also
don’t want to commit to anything without the benefit of furtherinformation. Opening yourself up to the signals around you may
lead to increased psychic ability with people turning to you for
advice or instruction. It can indicate a need to live day by day andnot make any major decisions until things become clear. Checking
the “weather” and how the prevailing conditions “feel” will help
you to proceed with your plans or dreams. Whether these thingsare emotionally, physically or mentally important, you'll know in good time. If something doesn’t feel quite right, and a changein the environment seems imminent, taking precautions ahead
of time can save a lot of problems.
Keywords: Staying ahead of the weather. Feeling changes aheadof time. Measured responses. Measurements. Perceiving subtlechanges. Insight. Indicators. Knowing when rain or storms
are coming. Stilling one’s self for answers. Talking about theweather. Putting out one’s feelers. Anticipating shifts. Opinionpolls. Anticipating what’s going to happen. Being on guard forinclement weather.
The Caution: Fear of change. Constant looking to fashions or fads.Not knowing how to react because of shifts in the atmosphere.
Watching and waiting to see how other people act, seeminglywith no will of one’s own. Being changeable. Having no anchor.Constant looking. Not being able to read the environment accurately.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 13
BAROMETER, n.An ingenious instrument which indicates whatkind of weather we are having.Ambrose Bierce
Sudden resolutions, like thesudden rise of mercury in a barometer, indicate little else than the variability of the weather.
David Hare
It doesn’t matter whattemperature the room is; it’s always room temperature.Stephen Wright
The man of character, sensitiveto the meaning of what he
is doing, will know how todiscover the ethical paths in themaze of possible behavior.Earl Warren
Some are weather-wise, someare otherwise.Benjamin Franklin
Observe due measure, for right
timing is in all things the most
important factor.
Hesiod
Shame is that intrinsic meter ofour own heart to tell us that we
have failed to follow ourownmoral compass.LaDawnna Burnett
Those who speak most of
progress measure it by quantityand not by quality.
George Santaya

11-14: A TRAIN ENTERING A TUNNEL
Commentary: ‘A Train Entering a Tunnel’ shows the ability to take theshortest and most direct route to a destination or outcome. Years ago,we would have had to go the long way around a mountain, but nowWwe can use many pathways, methods and “shortcuts” to get where wewant to go quickly and expediently. Often, though, going into a “Train
Tunnel’ can be a weird experience; the sunlight suddenly disappears,and it can feel as though we are hurtling through the earth to someunknown destination. This can be exciting, but also often ratherdisconcerting as the ‘Train’ speeds towards its destination or goal.
Oracle: You may feel the need to cut through any obstacles youencounter and to go straight ahead, regardless of any unseenhazards on your way. It may be necessary to examine whether youare operating at cross-purposes with someone. There may be a needto check the ‘Trains’ signals, to make sure that there’s not a collisionwith people, or complications, coming the other way. This can be
particularly true if this feels like a “one-track” journey. Perhaps thesituation feels like it’s never going to end, as though you're stuck ina ‘Tunnel’, but it’s certain that it will. You are likely to have a greatdeal of drive and it’s probable that others are with you, or people
may be depending on you, so plough on through. However, thiscan be a lonely journey that you're on. It may feel like you're goingthrough a dark “Tunnel all by yourself, and there can be a sense ofisolation. Whatever the situation, there’s a need to cut to the heartof the problem, without stopping to consider every single detail.Quickly adjusting, changing or making up your mind about someissue or problem can lead to swift conclusions and solutions. Gettingstuck in the details of the situation will probably just add to a muchlonger outcome than is needed. You, or someone close to you, may
need to just go for it. Look to ensure that you're not missing out onthe joy in the journey though. Perhaps you'd really rather go the long
way than through the “Tunnel’?
Keywords: Deep penetration. Cutting through extraneous orstifling detail. Persistence. Shortcuts to a desired end. Heartbypasses—physical, emotional, spiritual, etc. Cutting to the chase.Going for the objective regardless of side issues. Working at gettingsomething finished or done. Near-death experiences. The need fortrack maintenance. Dropping all distracting considerations. Fallopiantubes. Hurried sex.
The Caution: Being overcautious. Taking the long way around.Shortcuts that inhibit deep penetration. Cutting through the crap.Tunnel vision. Cutting people off. Not listening to others. Having a
one-track mind that doesn’t allow for detours or deviations. Severechanges in pressure. Railroading and bulldozing.What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 14
The only way round is through.
Robert Frost
No steam or gas ever drivesanything until it is confined. NoNiagara is ever turned into light
and power until it is tunneled.No life ever grows until it is
focused, dedicated, disciplined.
Harry Emerson Fosdick
Due to the current economicclimate, the light at the end ofthe tunnel will be turned off
until further notice.Anon
If we see light at the end of
the tunnel it is the light of anoncoming train.Robert Lowell
The most common of allantagonisms arises fromaman’s taking a seat beside you
on the train, a seat to which he
is completely entitled.Robert Benchley
Ifyou board the wrong train,it isno use running along the
corridor in the other direction.
Dietrich Bonhoeffer
RAILROAD, n.The chief of manymechanical devices enabling us
to get away from where we are
to where we are no better off.
Ambrose Bierce

11-15: TWO LOVEBIRDS SITTING ON A
FENCE AND SINGING HAPPILY
Commentary: ‘Two Lovebirds Sitting on a Fence and SingingHappily’ is an image that brings to mind togetherness, friendship,happiness, love, and the rejoicing of relationship. The ‘Lovebirds’may be 'Singing Happily’, but as they are ‘Sitting on a Fence’ thiscould be masking a reality; perhaps they are not exactly happy;perhaps they are not so together. If, indeed, the ‘Two’ are ‘Singing
Happily’; this is cause for joy and celebration about issues relatingto love, partnership, being together and the sharing of lives.
Oracle: ‘Singing’ and making statements about love out loudcan bring happiness to those nearby and lift the spirits of all
involved. However, this Symbol can also point to dividing lines
between people, like having a ‘Fence’ of some kind betweenthem. Although there may be superficial feelings of contentmentand pleasure, this can be based on someone having a non-committed, tenuous or shaky position. To go one way or anotherwith conviction in a relationship can invite the risk of separation,
but commitment eventually needs to be chosen or rejected. Howlong can people sit on the ‘Fence’? The ‘Fence’ can represent
actual physical divisions between people, where they can seeeach other, but can’t actually connect or be with each other. Isthat what’s happening? Is one ‘Lovebird Singing Happily' andthe other one wanting to escape? Divisions of hearts and mindscan lead to sorrow. See if you can look to love and happiness. Itmay take time for people to relax into a relationship, especially
if they’ve learnt to distrust each other or relationships in general.
Is there a pledging of commitment to each other? This Symbolcan also indicate problems with fertility and falling pregnant. Ifpeople are always ‘On the Fence’ how can they commit to thelives of their offspring—whether the “offspring” is their young,their creative ideas, or their future.
Keywords: Faith in love. Waiting for signs. Friendship and
companionship. Issues of “that’s them and this is us”. Fences,borders and barriers. Showing love for all to see. Commitment torelationship. Mating for life. The need for honest communications.Singing. Speaking one's truth.
The Caution: Sitting on the fence. Complaining aboutrelationships. Waiting to see what the others do. Being stuck
when one would rather fly off and be free. Having a fixed position.
Not wanting to comply with the other. Neighborhood disputes.
Noises from next door. Boasting of happiness.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 15
Do not wrong or hate yourneighbor for it is not he thatyou wrong but yourself.
Native American Proverb
Throw your heart over the fenceand the rest will follow.Norman Vincent Peale
Sometimes I wonder if men and
women really suit each other.Perhaps they should live nextdoor and just visit now and then.Katherine Hepburn
There is room in the smallestcottage for a happy loving pair.Johann Friedrich Von Schiller
The wavering multitude is divided into opposite factions.Virgil
A hedge between keepsfriendship green.Traditional Proverb
Along dispute means bothparties are wrong.Voltaire
Good fences make good
neighbors.E. Rogers
Some of our friends are for it.Some of our friends are againstit.And we’re standing with ourfriends.Mike McCurry—White Housepress secretary

11-16: A BIG BUSINESSMAN AT HIS DESK
Commentary: ‘A Big Businessman at His Desk’ reflects the need
for organization, power and leadership. As the ‘Businessman’ isseen as being ‘Big’, he probably has much to look after; details,finances, paperwork, possibiy for a large business or group. Hecan’t truly be successful if he doesn’t have control over the variousaspects of his work life. ‘His Desk’ must be in order and he needsa healthy command of his sphere of operations.
Oracle: This Symbol implies the need to feel confident and able tooperate efficiently in the ‘Business’ world. Sometimes ‘Business’
takes up so much time in our lives that we forget to unwind andtalk and think about anything else. How often and for how longdoes one have to be ‘At His Desk’? Are ‘Business’ considerationsmore important than home and family or health? Someone in
this situation may be unable to get directly involved in life, buthave to stay behind and attend to details and do the organizing.Feeling ‘Big’, confident, assured and proud of one’s achievementscan lead to expanded feelings about what one is capable of doingand contributing. Someone may have to stand up and declare what
is and isn’t desirable, ethical or possible. Emotional reactions may
be out of place here; employing a rational manner may be what’sneeded to resolve things. Then again, emotions may not be playingany part and maybe that’s the issue. Perhaps someone is being
rather cold and possibly cut-off in the pursuit of their objectives.
This Symbol asks: Are you organized, or do you have a huge messpiling up in your life? Are you taking notice of necessary details?
Are you living your life the way you think is best for your future,
your relationships and physical well being? Perhaps there’s a need
for more creativity, more time for your emotional and spirituallife. After all, allowing creative and emotional energy to flow willmost likely increase your business success.
Keywords: Issues of being happy in one’s career. Makingdecisions. Management. Being in charge and in control. Callingthe shots. The head rules the heart. Delegating duties or jobs.Economic rationalism. Sorting paperwork. Corporations. Keepinga diary. Striking a balance between having a life and doing allthat needs to be done. Desks, telephones, computers, faxes, etc.
Details and more details.
The Caution: Taking advantage. Bossing others. Shoving people
around. Getting depressed about work. Always being “on thejob”. Talking about money and business constantly. Greediness.Exploiting people and events for personal gain. Having difficultyretiring. The removal of the “little people”. Not doing thepaperwork. Brushes with the law.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 16
Monday I have Friday on my mind.The Easybeats
By working faithfully eight hours
a day, you might eventually get
to be a boss and work twelvehours a day.Robert Frost
What the world really needs ismore love and less paperwork.
Pearl Bailey
A billion here and a billion thereand pretty soon you’re talkingbig money.Everett M. Dirksen-US politician
I hate being a grown-up. Havingto learn things I don’t want
to know really pisses me off.
Overheard, quoted by
Barbara Sher
Having more money doesnot ensure happiness. People
with ten million dollars are no
happier than people with nine
million dollars.Hobart Brown
People who work sitting downget paid more than people whowork standing up.Ogden Nash
Ever notice that even the busiest people are never too busy totell you just how busy they are?Anon
The hardest thing in the worldto understand is the income tax.
Albert Einstein

11-17: A WATCHDOG STANDING GUARD,
PROTECTING HIS MASTER AND HIS
POSSESSIONS
Commentary: ‘A Watchdog Standing Guard, Protecting HisMaster and His Possessions’. The ‘Watchdog’ needs to stay alertfor possible intrusion, robbery or someone stepping over theirboundaries and into his territory. The ‘Watchdog’ can’t truly
relax as there’s the need to be constantly “on guard” in case oftrouble. If the ‘Watchdog’ lets down his 'Guard' for even a short
time, problems may occur when he’s not looking. This can endup being a tiring responsibility, especially if he is the only one
who is taking the situation seriously.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, you may feel unsafe and sense
the need to be alert for signs of trouble. Enlisting the support of
trusted and loyal helpers may be necessary, as there are likelyto be others who also have a vested interest in everything goingsmoothly or continuing to be okay. There is probably the need forsome form of reassurance, self-assurance or confidence that allis safe in your environment. Relaxation may be an issue: Is a lack
of sleep impinging on your life? Alternatively, somebody may be
prying, or watching for someone to slip up. However, sometimeswe imagine all sorts of intrusions or threats that aren’t there inreality. This can lead to the distrust of others, even those close
to you. Any small noise or sudden movement can set off a chain
reaction of suspicion and paranoia. However, one needs to beable to feel that it’s possible to let down their ‘Guard’ now andthen. There can be sense of ‘Protection’ discovered from beingable to discern what’s real and what’s not.
Keywords: Guardianship. Things that stand guard and protect.
Being on the alert against invasion or other trouble. Loyalty,possessiveness. Jealousy. The worry of loss. Alarm and securitysystems. Locks. Watchdogs. Being afraid of intrusion. Survivalinstincts. Bouncers and musclemen. Security guards. Constantly
checking up. Sudden responses. Having one's ear to the groundfor danger.
The Caution: Suspicion and paranoia that rob the joy ofownership. Being unable to let down one’s guard because ofthe possibility of invasion or attack. Feelings of being exposed.
Possible betrayal. Greed. Envy. Lust for power. Having others do
“the dirty work”. Stool pigeons. Spying. Stooges. Being the fall guy.Worrying endlessly about loss. Resenting intrusion. Jealousy.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 17
CERBERUS, n. The watch-dog
of Hades, whose duty it was toguard the entrance—against
whom or what does not clearlyappear; everybody, sooner orlater, had to go there, and nobodywanted to carry off the entrance.
Ambrose Bierce
There is no rule more invariable
than that we are paid for oursuspicions by finding what wesuspect.Thoreau
I loathe people who keep dogs.They are cowards who haven't gotthe guts to bite people themselves.August Strindberg
There’s nothing so comfortable
as asmall bankroll.A big one is always in danger.Wilson Mizner
Gold will be slave or master.Horace
Why grab possessions likethieves, or divide them likesocialists when you can ignore
them like wise men?Natalie Clifford Barney
Liberals feel unworthy of theirpossessions. Conservatives feelthey deserve everything they’ve
stolen.
Mort Sahl
Possession is nine points of the law.Proverb

11-18: A MAN BEING UNMASKED ATA
MASQUERADE
Commentary: ‘A Man Being Unmasked at a Masquerade’ showsthe inevitable outcome for anyone who is participating in a
‘Masquerade’. He can get away with wearing the ‘Mask’ for aperiod of time, but eventually circumstances will lead him to haveto reveal himself sooner or later. This could happen voluntarily
or involuntarily. He may decide when it’s time to reveal who he
truly is, or he may be forced to lift the ‘Mask’ against his own
wishes.
Oracle: Sometimes life uncovers ‘Masks’, intrigues, cover-upsand mysteries so that the truth may be revealed. Things may lookbetter or worse in their true light. What is revealed may be beyondmost people’s expectations with a very happy result. On the otherhand, there can be real disappointment as one’s true identity, andeven the way one looks, becomes unveiled. Secret motives mayhave some kind of purpose, but they almost invariably becomeknown in time and pretending to be something or someone thatone isn’t can lead to painful realizations when the truth comesout. Lies or cover-ups being revealed can lead to big changes inrelationships. You may find that this confronts you now. The firstconcern may be for the embarrassment and difficulties that can
arise, but it’s probably too late to worry about that. With this
Symbol, the truth will be revealed and exposed sooner or later.The question is: Are people being true to the truth themselves?Are things being covered up? If they are, sooner than later itwill begin to come to light that things aren’t as they’ve seemed.
Is it possible in this situation to forgive and forget? If needed,psychotherapy and other forms of healing can bring issues tothe surface so they can be faced.
Keywords: Secret motives exposed. Having to face one’s self.Facing the truth about another. Coming to terms with judgmentsabout one’s true worth. Owning up to who one truly is. Beingable to see through characters and trickery. Wearing a ‘Mask’that suits the situation. Insights into people. Dropping pretense.Stripping away cover-ups. Aliases. Finding or revealing one's trueself. The desire for authenticity.
The Caution: Detrimentally revealing yourself too quickly or tooearly. Being found out to be a fraud. Finding answers that aren’twelcome. Layers of deception discovered. Charades, pretense
and ploys to manipulate. Lies. Assumed identities.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 18
Alas, fortune does not change
men; it unmasks them.Stephen T. Steve
The greatest way to live withhonor in this world is to bewhat we pretend to be.Socrates
Man is least himself when he
talks in his own person. Givehim a mask, and he will tell youthe truth.Oscar Wilde
Whoever is detected inashameful fraud is ever after notbelieved even if they speak thetruth.Phaedrus
It is only the superficial qualitiesthat last. Man’s deeper nature issoon found out.Oscar Wilde
People that seem so glorious
are all show; underneath they
are like everyone else.Euripides
One may sometimes tellalie, but the grimace that
accompanies it tells the truth.Friedrich Nietzsche
Who are you going to believe,me or your own eyes?Groucho Marx

11-19: A FOREST FIRE FINALLY QUENCHED
Commentary: A ‘Forest Fire Finally Quenched’ pictures a situationwhere enthusiastic drive and zeal can set off an uncontrollable,exciting and sometimes destructive chain of events. The ‘ForestFire’ can cause a lot of damage and burn up anything that happens
to be in its path. There has been no choice but to fight for controland minimize the destruction to the ‘Forest’ and those things inthe path of the fire - animals, humans, houses, etc.
Oracle: In this situation ‘A Fire’ is ‘Finally Quenched’. Any effortsto contain the damage will at last be successful, and some peoplewill find the challenge to have been exhilarating. Regaining
control of the environment will lead to things coming back tonormal again, but everything, or at least many things, may bechanged. Major transformations may have taken place on many
levels. It is said that a ‘Forest Fire’ is actually good for the forestas a whole as it makes room for new growth by removing oldand dead matter. Farmers burn off their dead crops on a regularbasis to recycle the nutrients into the soil so as to nourish the new
growth. The ‘Fire’ also destroys the taller plants and trees whichcrowd out the shorter ones and block the Sun from reachingthem (just as our illusions can block us from “seeing the light”of the truth). However, much can be lost in a 'Forest Fire'; therecan be threats to life and property. You may find that you havebeen caught up in a situation, fighting for emotional or physical
control. Something that was raging in its intensity has ‘Finally’been extinguished or satisfied. This may have left you somewhatexhausted, but the exhilaration that can come from survivingsuch a struggle can leave you transformed and jubilant.
Keywords: Exuberant feelings that come after struggles. Comingout of an experience with a new sense of commitment or a newunderstanding of consequences. Getting a bee in your bonnet.Spot fires. Jubilation and release after hard labor. Fighting for
control. Sparks getting out of control. Events taking off in alldirections. Sexual energy and the containment of it. Ideas thatget whipped up and take off at high speed. The ferocity of nature.The calm after the storm. Smouldering passions. Smoke. One-eyed focus.
The Caution: Giving up too soon and losing it all. Self-defeatingdelight in drama. Looking back on a situation that got out ofcontrol and produced a lot of rubble. Destructive passions. Losingone’s spark. Running out of fuel. Feeling burnt out. Exhaustionand despair at what's lost.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 19
What is to give light must
endure burning.
Viktor Frankl
Alittle fire is quickly troddenout, which being suffered, rivers
cannot quench.William Shakespeare
It is with our passions as it is
with fire and water; they aregood servants, but bad masters.
Sir Roger L'Estrange
Get excited and enthusiasticabout you own dream. Thisexcitement is like a forest
fire—you can smell it, taste it,
and see it from a mile away.Denis Waitley
Do not quench your inspirationand your imagination; do notbecome the slave of your model.Vincent Van Gogh
Genius is the power of lightingone’s own fire.John Foster
Contentment consisteth not inadding more fuel, but in takingaway some fire.
Thomas Fuller
I’ve seen public opinion shift likethe wind and put out the very
fire it lighted.Rachel Field

11-20: A LARGE WHITE DOVE BEARING A
MESSAGE
Commentary: ‘A Large White Dove Bearing a Message’ showsmessages of peace and love. The ‘Dove’ is a symbol of innocence, .gentleness and affection; also, in art and in the Scriptures, it is thetypical symbol of the Holy Ghost. When Jesus was baptized, the HolyGhost descended in the shape ofa ‘Dove’. It also symbolizes the soul
and as such is sometimes represented coming out of the mouthsof saints at death. ‘Doves’ are a symbol of inspiration and divineguidance. A caged ‘Dove’ signifies the human soul imprisoned inthe flesh and held captive during the period of mortal life. They can
represent peace and in this Symbol the ‘Large White Dove is Bearinga Message’. The ‘Dove’ brought to Noah a bough of an olive-tree asa sign that the deluge of wrath that was unleashed by the flood wasover. Further ‘Doves’ are said to be able to perform miracles with
their ‘Messages’. Mahomet’s miracle from the Koran speaks of a white‘Dove’ whispering a ‘Message’ from God into Mahomet’s ear.
Oracle: You may need to solve your situation by relying on peacefulmessages that come from either outside or inside of yourself. A
‘Message’ is very likely to be on its way, one that you may havebeen waiting to hear for some time. This ‘Message’ can reassure yourspiritual center and will probably be offered with gentleness andwithout malice. Further, someone could say or reveal something thatchanges the whole situation, turning it around. However, it could bethat the ‘Message’ is not an easy one for someone to deliver. It maycause you to have to face something you'd rather not. Whatever, the
‘Large White Dove’ can be quietly reassuring that everything will
be okay in the end. Healing rifts between people with promises
of improvements, faith and trust will uplift the spirit. Miracles areknown to happen, so it’s best to hold to positive outcomes. After
all, Noah had to do that on his Ark. Listen intently for ‘Messages’ asthey will be around you, in one way or another.
Keywords: Being seen asa savior or one who needs saving. Blessingsdelivered—all will be well. Celebration. Somebody who bringsblessed relief. Issues of hope and salvation. The Covenant. News.
Announcements. Peace movements. The Rainbow Warrior. Utopian
idealism. Olive branches.
The Caution: Staying with the assumption that things will neverimprove. Refusing solace. Shooting the messenger. Not trustingthe good things in life. Not being content with any message that’srelayed. Insincere messages caused by the pain of not facing thereal truth.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 20
Our soul is escaped as a birdfrom the snare of the hunters,
the snare is broken and we are
delivered.Catholic Encyclopedia
Hold fast to dreams, For if
dreams die, Life is a broken-winged bird That cannot fly.Langston Hughes
Something was dead in eachof us, and what was dead wasHope.Oscar Wilde
We must accept finitedisappointment, but never loseinfinite hope.Martin Luther King Jr.
Lift me like an olive branch, bemy homeward dove.Leonard Cohen
A secret is like a dove, when itleaves my hand it takes wing.Saudi Arabian Proverb
Censure pardons the ravens butrebukes the doves.Latin Proverb
I got the message.All of us getthe message, sooner or later. Ifyou get it before it’s too late or
before you're too old, you'll pull
through all right.
Nat King Cole

11-21: A WOMAN DISAPPOINTED AND
DISILLUSIONED, COURAGEOUSLY
FACING A SEEMINGLY EMPTY LIFE
Commentary: ‘A Woman Disappointed and Disillusioned’ is an
image of apparent sadness and loss. As she’s ‘Courageously Facing
a Seemingly Empty Life’, she’s putting on a brave face, even though
it may feel to her that she doesn’t have much of a future. This could
really be just a matter of perception and expectations. Perhaps thereare some, or indeed many, things that she could be grateful for, butsome areas of her life are unfulfilled and not working. Perhaps thereare no children, no relationship or something has been lost.
Oracle: There can be feelings of wasted energy, trying to achieve
something against the odds, while creating only failure. However, itis always important to look on ‘Disappointment’ and loss as a teacher.The feeling, or belief, that one will never have the life they wantcan lead to exactly that outcome. Trying to be objective can help, as
things could improve far beyond your expectations or dreams in the
future. As they say, while there is life there is hope and we alwayshave something to strive for and achieve, if only we can have faithin it. ‘Courage’ is a key to recognizing the fullness and beauty of life,
regardless of how others see it. The biggest barrier to overcome isthe bitterness and barriers that can arise. There may be someone else
who really needs your support. Reconnect with what is available andpossible in your situation. Although it requires courage and faith toget back on track, we always return to life with greater wisdom andunderstanding. Realizing one’s limitations, but doing so with a senseof purpose and hope, will help ease matters. Try turning doom andgloom into faith, inspiration and thanks for what IS possible and IS
available, and watch how things improve.
Keywords: Breaking through illusions. Facing stark reality withhope. Loneliness and depression overcome. Positive outlooks.Counting one’s blessings. Looking towards the future. Having to
battle through relationship losses while maintaining a sense of selfand purpose. Turning points reached. Having a belief in miracles.Choosing joy.
The Caution: Wallowing in failure. Not seeing the joy and beauty ofone’s life. Accepting defeat. Feeling like all is lost. Bitterness. Wallingone’s self off from others. Not trusting people. Finding nothing to behappy about. Feeling deserted and alone. Not letting go of the past.
Injuries. Infertility. Incurable “dis-eases”. Unrequited love. The loss
of the partner. Staring into space. Being a sad, old person.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 21
Life is what we make it, and theworld is what we make it.Theeyes of the cheerful and of themelancholy man are fixed uponthe same creation; but verydifferent are the aspects which
it bears to them.
Albert Pike
Just think how happy youwould be ifyou lost everythingyou have right now, and then
got it back again.Frances Rodman
Remember that too manypeople who faithfully follow
the prescription to work hard,
sacrifice, achieve, accomplish,
create and get ahead either
“crack up” in the process or findan emotional vacuum at theend of it all.
Arnold Lazarus
Some people are sympathetic;others are just pathetic.Peter Wasthol
Doubt is the vestibule through
which all must pass before theycan enter into the temple of
wisdom.
Colton
We consume our tomorrowsfretting about our yesterdays.Persius
Even when I’m sick anddepressed, !love life.Arthur Rubenstein

11-22: A RUG PLACED ON THE FLOOR FOR
CHILDREN TO PLAY ON
Commentary: ‘A Rug Placed On The Floor For Children To PlayOn’ is an image of cushioning, comfort, safety, and fun placesfor activity and play. The ‘Rug’ has been ‘Placed On The Floor’because it is safe for ‘The Children’ to ‘Play’ there, they can enjoy
themselves and each other. People need times of ‘Play’, at anyage. Taking care of the “inner child”, one’s own or another’s, canlead to a new sense of security and comfort.
Oracle: It’s human nature to want to feel safe, loved andcomfortable in our lives. You may feel as though you are strugglingas you seek to grow and develop, but even if you are not aware
of it, there are cushions, safeguards and protection all around.
Higher forces may be looking after you in your search for safety
and security. The ‘Rug’ can picture a space where you can be
creative, play and relate with others. However, the ‘Rug’ can also
be like a border or boundary that restricts activity. The ‘Rug’ can
be put in place by those who believe they are acting in others’best interests, or through issues of control. When someonewanders off the ‘Rug’ whose decision is it to have them returnto the same place? If you are one of the ‘Children’, having fun
and being carefree, then the ‘Rug’ is quite probably a good thing.This can be like a safety net for your activities. If you are merelybeing treated like a ‘Child’, the ‘Rug’ can be a form of control,or others letting you know how much “space” you can take up.There may be a need to look after ‘Children’ or those youngerthan you, to provide somewhere safe for them to live and grow- even if it proves to be difficult. If we allow a sense of securityand love into our lives we can lift our fun and enjoyment and putup with any difficulties more easily.
Keywords: Comfort and care provided. The caring and longing
for children. Having a place of belonging. A sense of security.Rugs, carpets, cribs and cots. Defining areas of possible activity.Being aware of the needs of the young. Adoption. Sleeping on thefloor or the sofa. Fun, joy, toys. Playing with others. Nurseries.Day care. Cribs. Play pens.
The Caution: Being overprotected. Not growing up. Insulationfrom reality. Self-indulgence. Limits of activity. Having the rugpulled. Expecting to be looked after vs. self-reliance. Assumingthe young and inexperienced can look after themselves. Lines
that shouldn’t be crossed. Territorial attitudes. Always having to
watch the young ones. Inability to relax. Infertility.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 22
Here Skugg, Lies snug,As a bug,Inarug.Benjamin Franklin
If you let everyone walk over you,
you become a carpet.
Bulgarian Proverb
My husband and |are eithergoing to buy a dog or havea
child, We can’t decide whether toruin our carpet or ruin our lives.Rita Rudner
It’s easier to put on slippers than
to carpet the whole world.Al Franken
BOUNDARY, n.!n politicalgeography, an imaginary linebetween two nations, separatingthe imaginary rights of one from
the imaginary rights of the other.
Ambrose Bierce
There is a boundary to men’spassions when they act fromfeelings; but none when theyare under the influence ofimagination.Edmund Burke
Life is like a blanket too short.
You pull it up and your toesrebel, you yank it down andshivers meander about your
shoulder; but cheerful folks
manage to draw their knees upand pass a very comfortable
night.Marion Howard

11-23: A BIG TRAINED BEAR SITTING
DOWN AND WAVING ALL ITS PAWS
Commentary: ‘A Big Trained Bear Sitting Down and Waving allits Paws’ paints a picture of a performing animal, and a big oneat that, going through its tricks. ‘Bears’ are easily ‘Trained’, taughtand sometimes forced into performing many actions that are alien
to their natural behaviors and habits. By having ‘All Its Paws’ offthe ground, the ‘Bear’ has symbolically given up the ability to beable to run away or fight. It may be that it is receptive to friendlyor playful interaction. The ‘Bear’ is revealing its soft underbelly,which can also be a sign of feeling safe and unthreatened, at leastfor the moment. The ‘Bear’ may watch for cues from its traineror it may be able to perform the tricks all by itself.
Oracle: Perhaps there are things you don’t want to do, but it
seems your duty to do, act out or perform. There is a need todevelop responses above and beyond the normal expected level.Perhaps you are indeed excelling in your level of performance,
only you can really tell, although others may also judge this. Look
to your situation and see if you are compromising yourself ormerely acting out conditioned responses for the sake of others.
Is someone waving their arms around when they should justget on with the job at hand? Having to play out an act for thesake of social protocol against one’s natural instincts may lead
to compromises that lower your self-esteem. Is someone actinga certain way and claiming they have no choice but to act thatway? This image can also reflect a feeling of safety, or having nosense of threat, which allows for playful antics or experimentation
with unusual behaviors.
Keywords: Developing skills. Making excuses. Performing roteresponses. Expecting others to perform. Entertaining people.
Being theatrical. Stomach rubs. Big, tall, brute energies. Sitting
down or standing up. Fur and fuzzy hair. Playing instruments.Dancing. Performances. Arm waving. Animal training. Bears.Training. Learning by example. Fun vs. drudge.
The Caution: Being unable to recover one’s feet. Instinctiveand creative performances for the crowd. Fatuous need to bethe center of attention. Defying authority. Vulnerable. Working
against normal instincts or desires. Flapping one’s arms. Sitting
things out. Making a big noise, but doing nothing. Being cranky,ill tempered. Crazy behavior. Not having a mind of one’s own.Giving up control of one’s destiny. Mindless and brainless. Drugsand dope. Loss of spontaneity.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 23
If animals had reason, theywould act just as ridiculous aswe men folks do.Josh Billings
If an animal does something,we call it instinct; if we do thesame thing for the same reason,we call it intelligence.Will Cuppy
Every animal knows more than you do.American Proverb
Our expression and our wordsnever coincide, which is why the
animals don’t understand us.Malcolm De Chazal
lf animals play, this is becauseplay is useful in the struggle forsurvival; because play practices
and so perfects the skills neededin adult life.Susanna Miller
It’s all to do with the training:
You can do alot ifyou'reproperly trained.Queen Elizabeth II
You can’t teach an old dog newtricks.Traditional Proverb
Everything pays for growing tame.Maxine Kumin

11-24: A MAN TURNING HIS BACK ON HIS
PASSIONS TEACHES DEEP WISDOM
FROM HIS EXPERIENCE
Commentary: ‘A Man Turning His Back on His Passions TeachesDeep Wisdom From His Experience’ shows someone turning
away from something that’s been important in the past, but hasnow lost its value or relevance. The ‘Man’ has had to “Turn HisBack On His Passions’ - he has most likely had valuable lessonsin the letting go of desire. This can show a ‘Turning’ away frommany things; a lover, a job, a belief, some of the very things he’swanted or worked hard for. Perhaps he sees there is now a more
important job or mission to be pursued. As he “Teaches DeepWisdom From His Experience’, he has some knowledge or insightto transmit, ‘Teach’ or pass on to others.
Oracle: Going through difficult circumstances and coming outwith new realizations and codes for life is implied by this Symbol.By controlling your ‘Passions’, and making conscious and wisedecisions about your life, you can find an objective position thatallows you to understand what’s happening. You may feel that youcan no longer survive the roller-coaster ride of your emotions.You can benefit others by ‘Teaching’ the new ‘Wisdom’ andthe understanding that comes after having gone through somehard lessons. The question is: Can you sublimate your thoughts,desires and ‘Passions’? You may be in the process of going aftermore tangible, real or worthwhile spiritual or material concerns.Living life true to your path and giving up things that can leadyou astray, will allow more and more ‘Deep Wisdom’ to comethrough. ‘Teaching’ or setting a good example for others can
bring its own rewards. These ‘Teachings’ will develop out of adeep resonance that has come from the trials of ‘Experience’. Itcan feel like a case of “been there, done that”.
Keywords: Conquering one’s base nature. Changing throughmaturing realizations. Learning lessons the hard way. Realizing
it’s time to let go of things that once mattered. Being an exampleso others may learn. Reforming one’s ways. Dignity. Guidance.Turning around. Dropping the lower ego or society. Leading amonastic life. Showing what you've learnt.
The Caution: Giving up on emotional growth. Being dissatisfiedwith life. Being forced to perform for another’s benefit. Sticking
to things that are no longer worthwhile. Stubborn refusal to move
forward. Misguiding others. Severe reactions.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 24
Man is a creation of desire, not
acreation of need.Gaston Bachelard
Men at forty Learn to close
softly The doors to rooms theywill not be Coming back to.
Donald Justice
It is with our passions as it iswith fire and water; they aregood servants, but bad masters.Sir Roger L’Estrange
It is in vain to hope to please allalike. Leta man stand with hisface in what direction he will, he
must necessarily turn his back
on one half of the world.George Dennison Prentice
The heart is wiser than theintellect.Josiah Holland
Been there, done that, got thet-shirt.Anon
To understand the world onemust not be worrying aboutone’s self.
Albert Einstein
Life must be lived and curiositykept alive. One must never, forwhatever reason, turn his backon life.Eleanor Roosevelt
Man is only truly great whenhe acts from his passions.
Benjamin Disraeli

11-25: A BUTTERFLY WITH THE RIGHT WING
MORE PERFECTLY FORMED
Commentary: ‘A Butterfly With the Right Wing More Perfectly
Formed’ shows a situation of imbalance, lopsidedness and
sometimes physical distortions. The ‘Butterfly’ may have difficultyflying and therefore its very life is compromised because of this“handicap”. However, perhaps this ‘Right Wing More Perfectly
Formed’ is only a problem in how things look and not how they
perform. It could be that the ‘Butterfly’ has learnt how to cope
with this imbalance and can still live its life unhindered by thedefect.
Oracle: In your situation, you may find that you are applying your
rational logical mind out of balance to your intuition and creativewisdom. It is often harder to understand your intuitive messages,but reliance on logic can limit your possibilities. On the other
hand, it could be that life is swamped with a lack of rational
thought and responses, relying more heavily on the emotional,
creative and spiritual. This would have to be accessed by the
individual that has this situation or problem in their life. This
Symbol can show problems or issues to do with language or theability to verbally express feelings. It can also show someone
or a situation where the emotional aspects get the upper handbefore the rational mind really understands or “gets it”. With thisSymbol around, it may be necessary to not only learn to trust
your intuitive feelings, but also to be careful not to overreact
emotionally and take the extra effort to bring your thoughts andrational awareness up to speed. It can show emotional, mental orphysical handicaps that prevent one from doing what one truly
wants, or imbalances or mutations on the spiritual level. The main
issue here is about balance. Balance can still be achieved, but onlyif there is a genuine acceptance of the problems inherent.
Keywords: Rising above life’s distortions. A need to bring sometype of balance to situations. Injuries or problems with hands orarms. One side being more ‘Perfect’ than the other. The ‘Right’being better than the left. Mutations. Handicaps. Challenges.
Disabilities. Impediments.
The Caution: Imbalances and physical distortions. Asymmetry.An imbalance of functions leading to involuntary flapping around.
Distortions of reactions or of the truth. Lopsidedness. Hindrances.Being at a disadvantage. Feeling incapacitated.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 25
The bird that would soar abovethe plain of tradition and
prejudice must have strongwings.Kate Chopin
You cannot fly with wings madeof butter.Netherlands Antillean Proverb
A bird never flew on one wing.Proverb
Is he alone who has courage on
his right hand and faith on hisleft hand?Charles A. Lindbergh
Whatever the right handfindeth to do, the left handcarries a watch on its wrist toshow how long it takes to do it.Ralph W.Sockman
I'd give my right arm to beambidextrous.Yogi Berra
Let us take things as we findthem: let us not attempt todistort them into what they
are not. We cannot make facts.All our wishing cannot change
them. We must use them.John Henry Cardinal Newman
Only in quiet waters do things
mirror themselves undistorted.Only in a quiet mind is adequateperception of the world.Hans Margolius

11-26: A GARAGE MAN TESTING A CAR’S
BATTERY WITH A HYDROMETER
Commentary: ‘A Garage Man Testing a Car’s Battery With a
Hydrometer’ is an image of a mechanic ‘Testing’ the runningefficiency of a ‘Car’. He’s checking to see if any mechanical
problems or repairs are needed. Most specifically, he’s checkingthe water in the ‘Car’s Battery’ in order to ensure that things willrun well. A ‘Hydrometer’ is capable of measuring many things;
alcohol, salt, sugar; anything that may be held or suspended inwater.
Oracle: This Symbol reflects the need for a mechanical approach
to the issue at hand or the calling in of a “mechanically minded”
person. There is a need to take a more objective or inventive view
that is relative to modern society. Performing necessary checks
and balances to ensure the smooth running of our lives is part of
the everyday maintenance of society, our appliances and ourselves.The ‘Garage Man’ could be “Testing the Battery’ because there isa problem he needs to analyze or he could be performing routinepreventative maintenance. Certainly it is better to keep an eye on
things before they go wrong. Figuring out any malfunctions sothat life can proceed in a smoother, more efficient manner willhelp keep everything running smoothly. Perhaps there’s a need
for someone of authority, someone removed from your situation,to give some assistance, repairs or feedback. An interesting aspectof the ‘Car’s Battery’ is that the water (the emotional element)when combined with the positive and negative elements of the
battery is a self-empowering system. In this situation, it is thelevel of water or the emotional dependability of the situationthat is being measured because that is what is important. Ideally,
water that is used in a ‘Car’s Battery’ should be pure. You may
need to use some type of gauge on the health of your emotionalreactions. This Symbol can reflect the need to keep an eye onthe mechanics of the body and to be careful of dehydration ordrinking enough water.
Keywords: Testing the earthly vehicle for its roadworthiness.Situations that have “boiled-over”, bringing all to a stop.Breakdowns and the need for repair. Checking water levels.
Anticipating future problems. The need for good batteries. Cars
being serviced. Oil, petrol and grease. Check ups and tune-ups.Bringing forward movement to a halt.
The Caution: Causing distress by constantly analyzing people orsituations. Bad breath or dry skin. Not taking time for repairs ortune-ups. Running on empty.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 26
The expectations of life depend
upon diligence; the mechanicthat would perfect his work
must first sharpen his tools.Confucius
| do not forget thatlamamechanic.!am proud to ownit. Neither do | forget that the
apostle Paul was a tentmaker;
Socrates was a sculptor; and
Archimedes was a mechanic.
Andrew Jackson
It is a good idea to shop aroundbefore you settle on a doctor.
Ask about the condition of
his Mercedes. Ask about the
competence of his mechanic.Don't be shy. After all, you'repaying for it.Dave Barry
The great happiness of life, |find, after all, to consist in theregular discharge of some
mechanical duty.Friedrich von Schiller
We boil at different degrees.Ralph Waldo Emerson
Humanity is moving in a circle.
The progress in mechanicalthings of the past hundredyears has proceeded at the cost
of losing many other thingswhich perhaps were much
more important for it.
George Gurdjieff

11-27: AN ANCIENT POTTERY BOWL FILLED WITH FRESH VIOLETS
Commentary: The image of ‘An Ancient Pottery Bowl Filled WithFresh Violets’ is a reminder of the delicacy and beauty of nature.
It can picture flowers in earthenware bowls, mortar and pestlesfor the preparation of herbs, and things such as flower essences
and homoeopathy. There is a feeling here of purity of motive and
content. The simpler, more natural responses to problems and
society can often bring a sense of refreshment and realignment
with what is beautiful. Honest expressions of simplicity and
respect for beauty and purity can bring joy. These can be simplegifts given with a sense of giving from the heart.
Oracle: In the situation facing you, there may be a need to
remember to employ love, peace, beauty and simplicity. This
could be in relationship to you, with yourself, to others or to the
environment. Complications and difficulties are much more easily
solved if a fresh and simple approach is taken, rather than more
complicated, intellectual or highly charged emotional responses.Place a ‘Bowl filled with fresh flowers somewhere where it canremind you of the good things in life. Even a simple display offlowers picked from around your neighborhood can bring joy and
settle feelings back to a more even keel and can remind you ofthe true beauty of life in a very simple way. Also, picture yourselfas the open vessel, the ‘Bowl’, and allow yourself to receive theblessings of the ‘Fresh Violets’. Soon, things will get better andthose things that you need will come to you. It can be a questionof asking yourself “what do I need, really?” Simplifying one’s life
on some level will lead to more charm and beauty.
Keywords: Returning to ancient sources. Flower and herbal
remedies. Beauty. Setting standards for society. Slowing down
the tempo to get to the purity of something. Watering the garden.
The mortar and pestle. Homoeopathy and pharmacopoeia. Stains
and dyes. Flowers. African violets. Dainty, small and lacy things.
Antiques and curios. Beautiful reminders of yesterday. Valentine’s
Day flowers, roses. Things that remind you of your grandmother.The old supporting and nourishing the new.
The Caution: Lack of subtlety. Insensitivity. Being dried up andwithered from lack of water or emotion. Stagnant water. Beingshy and unresponsive. “Shrinking violets”. Neglecting the smallthings. Being so accomodating that one's needs are neglected ortrodden on.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 27
Big doesn’t necessarily meanbetter. Sunflowers aren't betterthan violets.
Edna Ferber
Forgiveness is the fragrance theviolet sheds on the heel that
has crushed it.
Mark Twain
Flowers always make peoplebetter, happier and more
helpful; they are sunshine, food
and medicine to the soul.Luther Burbank
We should let our godlinessexhale like the odor of flowers.We should live for the goodof our kind, and strive for
the salvation of the world.
Alexander Crummell
Fair flowers that are not gather‘din their prime Rot and consumethemselves in little time.
William Shakespeare
Music, when soft voices die,Vibrates in the memory—Odors, when sweet Violetssicken, Live within the sensethey quicken.Percy Bysshe Shelley
Arranging a bowl of flowers inthe morning can give a senseof quiet ina crowded day—likewriting a poem, or saying aprayer.Anne Morrow Lindbergh

11-28: A TREE FELLED AND SAWED TO
ENSURE A SUPPLY OF WOOD FOR
THE WINTER
Commentary: ‘A Tree Felled and Sawed to Ensure a Supply of
Wood For the Winter’ represents the sacrifice of one thing for thebenefit of another. This Symbol pictures the shifting and changingvalues we place on our environment and the tools we use. A ‘Tree’begins as a fragile life that may need our attention, care, concernand, in time, our gratitude. It develops into something thatprovides us with beauty and shade and is a haven for many birdsand animals. In time, whether the ‘Tree’ completes its growingcycle and dies or is cut down in its prime; it still has much to
offer. The energy that has been stored in the timber can be used
to fuel our need for warmth and comfort in hard times.
Oracle: This Symbol shows there is energy stored in everythingand that many things we may think are of no real value can behelpful on an entirely different level. ‘The Tree Felled and Sawed’by being used as fuel, or made into paper, is released to rejoin the
universal flow in many useful ways and forms. There are manythings that grow around us during life. Sometimes there can beother uses that are of greater benefit than just to let things standlike monuments or memories. You may feel a need to sacrificesomething old to find its current usefulness. There’s a need forputting in time and effort to ensure comfort, security and hopefor the future. Gather your resources when you can, don’t wait
for the last minute when supply might not be so readily available,
or harder to put your hands on. Ensuring that things are in orderfor the ‘Winter’ can allow you, and yours, to be sure of warmthand love during more difficult times.
Keywords: Gathering resources. Being prepared for hardertimes. Stocking up and stockpiling. Log cabins. Open fires. Careand reverence for things of wood and the earth. The making ofpaper. The publishing of books. Renewable resources. Xmas trees.Axes and tools. Stores and provisions. Logging. Timber. Wood forburning. Oil, petrol, fuel of all kinds. Woodchips. Storage.
The Caution: Hoarding supplies—not wanting anyone to getthem. Destroying the old for modern advances. Feeling cut offat the knees. Being chopped down and stacked away somewhere.Fearing that there won’t be enough fuel, money, etc. for hardertimes. Nonrenewable resources. Wanton destruction and loggingof the forests. Waste.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 28
Someone’ sitting in the shadetoday because someoneplanted a tree along time ago.Warren Buffett
When the oak is felled the whole
forest echoes with its fall, buta hundred acorns are sown insilence by an unnoticed breeze.Thomas Carlyle
If |had 8 hours to chop downa
tree, I'd spend 6 sharpening myaxe.Abraham Lincoln
Chop your own wood and it willwarm you twice.Thoreau
The pioneers cleared theforests from Jamestown to theMississippi with fewer toolsthan are stored in the typical
modern garage.Dwayne Laws
From a fallen tree, all makekindling.
Spanish Proverb
Some men go through a forestand see no firewood.
English Proverb
Write without pay until
somebody offers to pay you.
If nobody offers within threeyears, sawing wood is what youwere intended for.
Mark Twain

11-29: A BUTTERFLY EMERGING FROM A CHRYSALIS
Commentary: ‘A Butterfly Emerging From a Chrysalis’ isnothing less than a complete emergence into a new life and totaltransformation. It’s facing a whole new beginning and an entirelynew life from what it has previously known. The ‘Butterfly’, afterit struggles to ‘Emerge’ from its ‘Chrysalis’, takes a moment to
stretch its wings and orient itself. It has shrugged off its ‘Chrysalis’and is free to take flight when the moment is right.
Oracle: Like an awakening, you may feel that you are suddenlyable to do something that truly reflects your inner self and whatyou've always wanted or meant to become. Things have beendeveloping within you that reflect who you truly want to be.Care will need to be taken with this great effort of birth andrebirth to ensure a smooth transition into another dimension of
life. With this brand new start you will be able to realize many
more of your talents and potentials, even the “latent” ones. What
have you been storing up and learning and what do you assess
your life’s purpose to be? There is likely to be an awakening to
a whole new field of opportunity, and this can be very exciting,although it can be somewhat confusing and confronting. Acautious but hopeful attitude at first will help you to ease intoit. There can be nervousness here, a feeling of having to “findone’s feet”. It may be a good idea to take a moment to adjust to
any new developments before taking flight. There can be somepain involved in the birth of the new, but if one has faith in thenew beginning, this is soon forgotten and life takes on a wholenew meaning. Events often happen to us to help us come out ofourselves in a more meaningful and beautiful way. Seeing eachevent as an opportunity for rebirth can lead to new depths oflife that you’ve possibly only previously imagined. Imagine thebeauty that is coming through in the birthing of your new wingsand this new life.
Keywords: Slow building of confidence. Coming out into a fullerparticipation in the bigger picture. Growing up and out. Emergingfrom the dark. Leaving yesterday behind. Becoming more andmore beautiful. Finding one’s feet or wings. Metamorphosis.Huge changes in the works. Giving up struggling. The drama ofnew life unfolding.
The Caution: Failing to allow changes to be experienced. Feelinglike one will never “arrive”. Struggling to emerge ahead of time.
Feeling confined. Being tied to the past. Rushing leading todisorientation or injury.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 29
I do not know whether I was then a man dreaming! was a butter fly, or whether I am now a butterfly dreaming I am a man.Chuang Tse
With each passage of humangrowth we must shed aprotective structure [like ahardy crustacean]. We are leftexposed and vulnerable—butalso yeasty and embryonicagain, capable of stretching inways we hadn’t known before.Gail Sheehy
The butterfly becomes onlywhen it’s entirely ready.Chinese Proverb
There is nothing in a caterpillar
that tells you it’s going to beabutterfly.Sarah Margaret Fuller
It takes courage to pushyourself to places that you have
never been before... to test
your limits... to break throughbarriers.And the day camewhen the risk it took to remaintight inside the bud was more
painful than the risk it took to
blossom.
Anais Nin
So long as a person is capableof self-renewal they are a livingbeing.Henri Frederic Amiel

11-30: MOONLIT FIELDS, ONCE BABYLON,
ARE BLOOMING WHITE
Commentary: ‘Moonlit Fields, Once Babylon, Are Blooming White’
is an expression of purity, innocence and the fruits of the past. TheHanging Gardens of Babylon were a magnificent structure that long
ago celebrated the rule of human culture. The Gardens were said tobe enormous structures with incredibly intricate watering systems.They are one of the Wonders of the Ancient World. Whether real or
not, these gardens appeal to the human desire to return to the simpleand exquisite life of the Garden of Eden, a life of earthly paradise. Themyth of an original garden with perfumed trees and luscious fruits,
birds and animal life, and rivers of life-giving waters is common tomany faiths including Christianity, Judaism and Islam. Many greatadvances come out of this region, including language, astronomy andmathematics. Long after Babylon’s fall and the man-made structures
disappeared, mere remnants of the garden that was ‘Once Babylon’remain.
Oracle: Even though the grandeur of the past may be lost, changedor damaged by war or time, the energy and power of a place remains.
This Symbol reflects the permanence of the natural essence of a place,a person, an idea or a civilization. The essence will long remain andthe seeds will sprout forth anew as these ‘Moonlit Fields Are NowBlooming White’. Rewards come from nature’s bounty for all the workthat’s been done even amongst the devastation and ruin that has been
endured. No matter what is thrown at something, the resilience andbeauty of its spirit will continue to push through the odds. There maybe a feeling that you are in the right place at the right time. All in all,your best qualities or your talents will be recognized and appreciated.When you are following a true path, you are able to rely on the supportof the universe in its flow. This is the degree of the beginning of theAge of Aquarius. As the energy of the Age of Pisces wanes, the Age ofAquarius sprouts forth like a “flower” from the ruins of the old.
Keywords: Rewards coming through from past generations. The
feeling of ancestors surrounding one’s present deeds. Alchemy.Loss of ancient civilizations. Reverence for things from the past. TheMiddle East and all things middle-eastern. Belly-dancing. Rebirths ofold civilizations. Grandeur. Seeds of the past becoming flowers and
fruits of the present. Records. Fields that were once Avalon.
The Caution: Disbelieving because there are no rational structures orsupport. Destroying ancient lands or monuments because of religiousbeliefs or greed. The devastation and ruin of Iraq in order for the
modern world to succeed. Projecting the sins of the world onto people
or places that are foreign.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Aquarius 30
We are like ignorant shepherdsliving on a site where great
civilizations once flourished.The shepherds play with the
fragments that pop up to thesurface, having no notion of the
beautiful structures of which
they were once a part.
Allan Bloom
Man has been crying sinceancient times about the
deterioration of civilization.Jason Lewis
More than any time in history
mankind faces a crossroads.One path leads to despair and
utter hopelessness, the other tototal extinction. Let us pray that
we have the wisdom to choose
correctly.Woody Allen
If it should turn out that we havemishandled our own lives as
several civilizations before ushave done, it seems a pity thatwe should involve the violet andthe tree frog in our departure.Loren Eiseley
The earth laughs in flowers.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Letting a hundred flowers
blossom anda hundred schools
of thought contend is the policyfor promoting the progress ofthe arts and the sciences anda
flourishing culture in our land.Mao Tse-Tung

12-1:  A CROWDED PUBLIC MARKET PLACE
Commentary: 'A Crowded Public Market Place' brings to mind images of people bargaining, buying, selling and looking at the products for sale and exchanging thoughs and pleasantries. In a 'Public Market Place' many different things are on display, depending on the current economy and how well people's needs can be met. As the 'Market' is 'Crowded', there are many people bustling as they move around. People come together, meet each other, and learn about life in their community. They keep up with the news of what's going on whild bargaining or buying food, clothing and other necessities.
Oracle: This pictures products being available for sale, barter
or investment. Depending on how you see things, the best-and
possibly also the worst-aspects of the products available to the
community are on display. You may be able to contribute as well
as benefit from this. Getting yourself or your products “out there”
where they can be appreciated will get you into the game - oris it just the rat race? What can you do to ensure that you canget a fair share of the rewards or the money changing hands? Ifyou are a salesperson, are you prepared to have your “wares”out in the open where they can be criticized and evaluated? Ifyou are a buyer, it is likely that you will find what you’re lookingfor, and possibly more, if you look long enough. Do you knowhow to bargain, close the sale and get the best deal? There maybe questions as to whether things are worth the price placed
on them. Ensuring that whatever you have to sell or buy isworthwhile, on all levels - the emotional, mental, physical orspiritual, will protect your good name, reputation or financial
status. Are gains and investments equally balanced?
Keywords: Human interchange. Bartering. Commercialism.Shopping centers, markets. The Internet. People fulfilling each
other’s desires. Buyers and sellers. Classifieds. Consumables.Money changing hands. Products of all kinds. Globalization—itsrewards and trappings. Shops and landlords. Storage, stockpilesand stocktaking. Bargains and bargaining. The rules of fair trade.Competition. Public opinion. The economy. Trade embargoes.Big business. The Stock market. Advertising.
The Caution: Being too stingy or greedy to share benefits. Airingones “laundry”, emotions or possessions in public. Panicking fromfeeling “crowded in”. Exploiting for greed. Disputes over costs.
Monopolies. Not letting anything get in the way of making a buck.Always bargaining for one’s own advantage. Ripoffs. sweatshops.Being too busy to enjoy people.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 1
Civilization consists in themultiplication and refinementof human wants.
Robert Millikan
Strategy should evolve out ofthe mud of the marketplace, notin the antiseptic environment ofan ivory tower.Al Ries
He that does not ask will neverget a bargain.French Proverb
Call someone your lord and
he'll seli you in the slave market.
Saudi Arabian Proverb
Markets change, tastes change,so the companies and theindividuals who choose to
compete in those markets mustchange.An Wang
Everything is worth what its
purchaser will pay for it.Syrus Publilius
The market came with the
dawn of civilization and it is notan invention of capitalism... If
it leads to improving the well
being of the people there is nocontradiction with socialism.
Mikhail Gorbachev
The market is a place set apart
where men may deceive eachother.Diogenes Laertius

12-2: A SQUIRREL HIDING FROM HUNTERS
Commentary: ‘A Squirrel Hiding From Hunters’ is an image offear, worry and apprehension. The ‘Squirrel’ senses it is somehowthreatened, or that its very survival is at risk. The ‘Squirrel’ is afraid to
come out into the open because of a perception that something is outto get them, whether it is true or not. There’s a need, or an instinct,to hide from the threatening or aggressive elements in life.
Oracle: Is someone fretting about their position or future? There
may be a sense of aggression in the air where you, or someone youknow, may be one of the smaller players. Sometimes the “enemy” is
actually not really there, and we make it up through fear or paranoia.
To be cautious is wise, but hiding oneself away can lead to missed
opportunities for any kind of nourishment and the possibilityof freedom, sunshine and basking in the light. The provision ofnourishment and sustenance may be difficult if one feels somehowthreatened. This feeling of “threat” can happen on any level. It mayhave been a necessary process to go through the fright, care andworry facing you, but the time has to eventually come when you can
feel safe and able to enjoy life. Is your neighborhood threatening orunsafe in some way? Although we may not like to admit it, sometimes
‘Hiding’ away is the best option, whether your fears are real ormerely imagined. This can give you time to sort things throughin your heart and mind to decide what your next move will be.
This Symbol can bring nervousness and a lack of sleep. Ifyou feel
victimized and “holed-up” in this matter, perhaps a safer home, orliving environment, would make things easier. It is true that if weproject fear out into our environment, it will most likely manifestin a reaction or event somewhere. What creative solutions can youemploy to ensure a safe outcome for all concerned? After all, do the‘Hunters’ really want to shoot a ‘Squirrel’?
Keywords: Using tactics to ensure survival. ‘Hiding’ one’s self away.
Not stepping out into the big wide world for fear of making the wrongmove. Security systems. Caution and reserve. Using commonsense.Things or people that feel tiny, uncertain or insecure. Refuges andthe need for them. Staying out of people’s way. Staying home. Locksand keys. Stockpiling for harder times.
The Caution: People picking on each other. Being bullied out ofwhat you deserve. Giving those “out there” more power than theywarrant. Not trusting life. Paranoia. Running away from things. Notwanting to go out and socialize. Truancy. Not speaking up for fearof being shot down. Threats of terrorism. Having to lie about one’swhereabouts. Not answering the door. Being caged in. Agoraphobia.Claustrophobia.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 2
Why not go out ona limb? Isn't
that where the fruit is?Frank Scully
God gives the nuts but he doesnot crack them.German Proverb
Of all the thirty-six alternatives,running away is best.
Chinese Proverb
There is perhaps nothing so badand so dangerous in life as fear.
Jawaharlal Nehru
Giving advice to a stupid manis like giving salt to a squirrel.
Kashmiri Proverb
A sly rabbit will have threeopenings to its den.Chinese Saying
The fox has many tricks. The
hedgehog has but one. But thatis the best of all.Desiderius Erasmus
One of the rules of caution isnot to be too cautious.Bahya ibn Paquda
Fear defeats more people thanany other one thing in theworld.Ralph Waldo Emerson
Never feel self-pity, the most
destructive emotion there is.
How awful to be caught up inthe terrible squirrel cage of self.Millicent Fenwick

12-3: A PETRIFIED FOREST, AN ETERNAL RECORD OF A LIFE LIVED LONG AGO
Commentary: ‘A Petrified Forest’ brings to mind fossils andinsects stuck in amber and other remnants of ages past. Theyare ‘Records’ that have long been around to remind us of how
life was in more ancient times. That it is ‘An Eternal Record of a
Life Lived Long Ago’ shows that the achievements of life do notnecessarily disappear when we move on, or go through majorchange or the death of the old. Things continue to exist such asrecords, memories, art, literature, photographs, letters, emails,etc.
Oracle: There’s a need to retrieve, sort through, or go over‘Records’ from the past in some way. This may be the time to lookto these histories or to appreciate their value and relevance to lifetoday. However, memories from the past can freeze up life in the
present and hold us in an unmovable state. Sometimes difficult
or painful memories from childhood can inhibit and stop theprocesses of new growth in the present. Is the past stopping youfrom growth or are worries about age freezing you? Is the situation
facing you stuck in time without a clear understanding of how toproceed? Therapies can act to reawaken memories or knowledgefrom out of the past, even when it looks like everything hasdried up or died. Perhaps you're learning about the importanceof keeping records; the past can so easily be lost and it can bedifficult, if not impossible, to accurately remember or recall it.Try looking at your ‘Records’, your memories and things such
as photographs and diaries from years gone by. New life can befound as long as one is willing to look. Getting the “dead wood”
out of your life, whether it is clogging up your cupboards, yourrelationships, your emotional life, even the garden, etc., can clearthe way for the growth of new life.
Keywords: Remnants from the past. Stillness. Agelessness.Plastic surgery. Being able to withstand life’s storms. Resilience.Crystals, diamonds, gemstones. Beauty that remains ageless.Wood and lacquered wood. Coal, oil and petrochemicals. Diets.Dependability. Family histories. Keeping records. Amber. Fossils.
Geology. Archeology. Ancient remnants. Mental and emotionalfiling cabinets. Lingering evidence. Petrified wood. Photographsand photography. Stones. Stone monuments. Diaries.
The Caution: Rigidity, immobility, inflexibility. Being frozen.Not letting go of difficulties. Hanging on for grim death. Feelingstuck. Destroying the old. Severing links to the past. Keeping
tabs. Memories that destroy the present.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 3
The tendency of old age to thebody, say the physiologists, is
to form bone. It is as rare as itis pleasant to meet with an old
man whose opinions are notossified.J. F. Boyse
A photograph never growsold. You and! change, peoplechange all through the monthsand years, but a photograph
always remains the same. How
nice to look at a photograph ofmother or father taken manyyears ago. You see them asyou remember them. But aspeople live on, they changecompletely. That is why |think aphotograph can be kind.Albert Einstein
Every scientific truth goes
through three states: first,people say it conflicts with theBible; next, they say it has beendiscovered before. Lastly, they
say they always believed it.Louis Agassiz
Keep some souvenirs of yourpast, or how will you ever proveit wasn’t alla dream?
Ashleigh Brilliant
Language is the amber in whicha thousand precious and subtlethoughts have been safelyembedded and preserved.Richard C.Trench

12-4: HEAVY CAR TRAFFIC LINKING TWO
SEASIDE RESORTS
Commentary: ‘Heavy Car Traffic Linking Two Seaside Resorts’pictures ‘Traffic’ streaming along a road or thoroughfare. Thejourney to and from desirable places like ‘Seaside Resorts’ can be
difficult and frustrating as many people may be in the same area,having the same destination. When the situation is ‘Linking TwoSeaside Resorts’, it can be even more difficult with traffic bank-ups,delays and accidents, particularly at peak-hour. Ifthe “drivers” don’t
follow the codes of good driving by merging politely and allowingpeople to come into the flow of ‘Traffic’, there can be “road rage’,impatience and intolerance.
Oracle: This can show communications and linkages betweenseparate worlds leading to increased pleasure OR frustration,confusion or psychic indigestion. There’s a need for patience andgive-and-take as there is a lot going on and confusion can set in if onedoesn’t follow the rules of the game. Abiding by acceptable rules andprocedures along with common sense will ensure a smooth flow of
operations. You may feel like you are getting stuck in a pattern that
continually bounces back and forth, never arriving at any final or
desirable destination. This can be very tiring. It is important to realizethat although being “squeezed-in” can bring on a sense of panic ordiscomfort, the chances are that it will not be permanent and thereis probably something better and more pleasurable waiting for youonce you get out of the current situation. See ifyou can get some timeout from running around, mentally, emotionally or physically. ThisSymbol can show someone who loves pleasure, being easily boredor distracted by what seem to be better offers or opportunities, and
continually on the lookout for better places or people. Much timecan be lost on the journey only to find that you are in the same sortof position you were in in the first place.
Keywords: Going with the flow. Running back and forth. Havingto move continually. Pollution and car exhaust. Rush hour and
road-rage. Plans for arrivals and departures. Public holidays. Trafficjams. Traffic banking up. Having trouble making left hand turns.Detours. Packing and unpacking. Luggage. Travel itineraries.Impasses. Nervous systems. Urine therapy. Constant phone calls.
Switchboard jams. Heat and smog.
The Caution: Creating barriers. Constant traffic stopping thepossibility of real human interchange. Claustrophobia. Feeling
like there is no escape. Exhaustion due to everyday hustle and
bustle. Running out of fuel. Accidents. Taking the long way round.Blockages.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 4
I'm astounded by people whowant to “know” the universewhen it’s hard enough to findyour way around Chinatown.
Woody Allen
When everything's coming your
way, you're in the wrong lane.Stephen Wright
Maybe I’m lucky to be going soslowly, because | may be goingin the wrong direction.
Ashleigh Brilliant
When you come to a roadblock,take a detour.Mary Kay Ash
In between goals is a thingcalled life, that has to be livedand enjoyed.Sid Caesar
All men should strive to learnbefore they die, what they arerunning from, and to, and why.James Thurber
Every road has two directions.Russian Proverb
Everywhere is walking distance
if you have the time.Steven Wright
To know the road ahead, askthose coming back.Chinese Proverb
I'm wanted at the traffic jam,
they're saving me a seat.
Leonard Cohen

12-5: A CHURCH BAZAAR
Commentary: ‘A Church Bazaar’ is an image of people in acommunity coming together to have fun, have something to eatand drink, get a bargain, and possibly make some new friends.
This ‘Bazaar’ could be something that the community has longbeen anticipating, or it could be a more regular event. Either way,there are things brought and sold, fun and gossip to be had andnew relationships forged. For some, there is a considerable amountof work to be done. Money from the ‘Bazaar’ often goes to the
‘Church’ or to help people in need in the community.
Oracle: This Symbol shows the pooling of talents and resources
to help people or create uplifting experiences for others. It
also represents old-fashioned values brought to the community
through simple commerce and the warmth of sharing. This is
primarily a time for group cooperation to benefit the people of
the community. People cooperate and get involved in activities that
have a people-centered outcome rather than a purely economicone. In this situation, you may be unable to achieve your goals onyour Own, so a certain amount of trust must be bestowed on thosearound you. Altruistic and selfless attitudes should be employed.The community can be enriched in many ways from displays oftogetherness, giving and sharing, and through charitable works.There can, however, be a tendency to use faith or communalgoodwill to extract money or services from people. Be sure that
the benefits go to the correct causes, not simply for one’s own gain.However, someone may need to give up always doing or givingfor others, in order to receive. There are often small rewards here,but they can be bigger or better than you first realized or prove to
be more important than they first appeared. For the ‘Bazaar’ to besuccessful, people need to gather together the bits and pieces forthe sale, bring the jars of jam, organize the stalls and ensure that
the community knows about it.
Keywords: Overcoming loneliness and alienation. Selling things.The issue of real worth. A lot of effort for small rewards. Smallscale commercial bartering and interchange. The collection plate.Generosity and charitable community attitudes. Jars of jam and
things handmade. Bric-a-brac. Bargains. Practical spirituality.
Volunteers. People sharing the load. Charity work. Money raising.Garage or yard sales. Second hand clothes.
The Caution: Spiritual or social exclusivity. Giving things smaller
worth than they deserve. Using people. Deception on the groundsof faith. Fussing about small details. Fighting over “position”. Issuesof territory. Pushy people. Social boundaries that exclude some.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 5
Sharing is sometimes moredemanding than giving.
Mary Bateson
One man gives freely, yet grows
all the richer; another withholdswhat he should give, and only
suffers want.The Bible
He who bestows his goodsupon the poor shall have as
much again, and ten timesmore.John Bunyan
Some people give time, somemoney, some their skills andconnections, some literally give
their life’s blood. But everyone
has something to give.Barbara Bush
Ifyou have great wealth, givealms out of your abundance;ifyou have but little, distribute
even some of that. But donot hesitate to give alms.Apocrypha
Charity has its own rewards.Anon
Never let your zeal outrun
your charity. The former is but
human, the latter is divine.
Hosea Ballou
In necessary things, unity; indoubtful things, liberty; in allthings, charity.
Anne Baxter

12-6: A PARADE OF ARMY OFFICERS IN
FULL DRESS
Commentary: ‘A Parade of Army Officers in Full Dress’. They havesmartened themselves up, put on their uniforms and gathered
together in a display put on for the sake of the community. There’sa need for them to follow protocol and show a brave, cohesiveface for the sake of the ‘Parade’. Their morale needs to be highand upbeat.
Oracle: There is a need to be aware of duty, honor and theprotection of higher ideals. You may be a part of something big andworthwhile. Wearing some kind of “uniform” may be required to
show allegiance to a particular cause, country, relationship or otherarea of life. Wearing the “right clothes” and presenting the “right
image” can lead to feelings of acceptance, respect and belonging.Dedication, discipline and duty bring their own kinds of rewards.
However, sometimes people would rather not have to put in allthe effort for little apparent return. Whatever, showing pride and
solidarity will help this situation move forward. There are issues ofhaving to show one’s “authority” in public. One may have to learnto withstand criticism or feelings of just being “one of the crowd”.Maybe there’s a desire for, or a fear of, typecasting: being cast inastereotypical mold. Do you really belong in this situation, or would
you really rather go AWOL? Are you being bullied and told what todo and how to live your life? Perhaps you feel like you’ve signedup for a commitment and, at times, you do not want to put in thework. What procedures must be followed here? This ‘Parade’ is
something that will eventually pass by. Putting on your best faceand joining with others will ensure success.
Keywords: National pride on display. Reminders of those puttinglife and limb on the line for kin and country. Uniforms, hats.People seeking recognition from the community, regardless ofwhat they’ve personally achieved. Patriotism. Memories of war.
Being committed to service. Medals. Stripes. Uniformity. Grinningand bearing it. Projecting the “right image”. Drills and routines.
Displays of courage. Assembling together. Braiding and piping. Spitand polish. Parades and marching. Police and law enforcement.Guns and bayonets. The importance of looking good.
The Caution: “Stiff” and unfeeling displays. Having specialprivileges that others don’t. Doing what one must do. Hidingbehind a facade. Not being prepared, or able, to show one’s trueself. “Drill sergeants” who scream and shout. People parading theirimportance. False courage. Taking the glory away from the littlepeople. Wearing anything.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 6
What a curious phenomenonit is that you can get men todie for the liberty of the worldwho will not make the littlesacrifice that is needed to freethemselves from their ownindividual bondage.Bruce Barton
Duty is the sublimest word inour language. Do your duty inall things. You cannot do more.You should never do less.
Robert E. Lee
Pressed into service meanspressed out of shape.Robert Frost
Every generation of Americansneeds to know that freedomconsists notindoing what we
like, but in having the right todo what we ought.Pope John Paul
Parades should be classed asa nuisance and participantsshould be subject toa term in
prison,
Will Rogers
Eternal nothingness is fine ifyou happen to be dressed for it.Woody Allen
lfyou look good and dress well,you don’t need a purpose in life.Robert Pante

12-7: ILLUMINATED BY A SHAFT OF LIGHT, A LARGE CROSS LIES ON ROCKS SURROUNDED BY SEA AND MIST
Commentary: ‘Illuminated By a Shaft of Light, a Large Cross Lies
on Rocks Surrounded By Sea and Mist’ is an image that inspires
feelings of chaos and misplaced loyalties. It can feel as though
something has been unjustly sacrificed and things have come tonothing. Christ was forsaken on ‘A Large Cross’. The ‘Cross’ canindicate a crucifix and can show the shouldering of trouble andmisfortune or faith and hope. The ‘Shaft of Light’ indicates thatspiritual and creative help is at hand.
Oracle: There could be a feeling that life has not been “good”
enough. Thoughts of helplessness can come from feeling as thoughone’s life is finished and that all is lost. Perhaps one’s aim wastoo high and things have came crashing down. Feeling forsaken
or used in relationships can lead to a sense of loss of belongingor identity. It may indeed seem that much has been lost, but dowe really have to continue to suffer so much? Seeing the positiveor the spiritual messages that come in dark moments can shednew understandings that transcend even the most difficult times.With faith and a positive outcome in mind, you may experiencea true awakening, or a reconnection with your spiritual idealsand hope for the future. A sign may come soon to show that youare on the right track to recovery of life and love. Letting go ofoutworn relationships, allegiances or beliefs will assist you tomove on with a stronger sense of self. However, are there stillsome worthwhile and wonderful things that can be salvaged or
things to be grateful for? Concentrate on ‘The Shaft of Light’ asthis can lead you to see that ‘Light’ is indeed all around you.
Keywords: Renewed dedication after loss. Looking for signs ofhope and recovery. Coming to terms with loss or failure. Rocks,mist, howling winds on coasts. Crosses of faith. Important andsubstantial sacrifices. Being devastated by events. Being in the
“spotlight” in difficult times. Finding the way through the dark.The need for sacrifice. Alternative religions. Stepping outsidereligious boundaries.
The Caution: Lost faith. Hopes dashed. Giving up. Being shatteredby the constraints of life. Depression. Feeling like one is beingsacrificed, sometimes for nothing. Unable to see through the
fog. Scorn, persecution and attack because of religious or social
reasons. Hopelessness. Things grim, dark and foreboding.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 7
Crosses are ladders that lead to heaven.Proverb
In order for the light to shine sobrightly, the darkness must bepresent.Danny Devito
No pain, no palm; no thorns,
no throne; no gall, no glory;nocross,no crown.William Penn
Call on God, but row away fromthe rocks.
Indian Proverb
When things are at the worst
they begin to mend.Proverb
For the truly faithful, no miracleis necessary. For those whodoubt, no miracle is sufficient.
Nancy Gibbs
We see but dimly through themists and vapors; Amid theseearthly damps What seem tous but sad, funeral tapers Maybe heaven's distant lamps.Longfellow
Faith is one of the forces bywhich men live, and the total
absence of it means collapse.William James
Forgive, oh Lord, my little jokeson thee and I'll forgive the bigones on me.Robert Frost

12-8: A GIRL BLOWING A BUGLE
Commentary: ‘A Girl Blowing a Bugle’ brings to mind someone
performing reveille; the ‘Bugle’ call used in the armed forces
announcing that it is time to “rise and shine”. The ‘Bugle’ is abrass-wind instrument, somewhat like a trumpet, but usuallywithout keys or valves. It has been used mostly for military callsand signals, but it’s also sometimes used as a hunting horn. Itschief function is to sound, to summon, to signal by blowing a‘Bugle’ call. In dream imagery, the ‘Blowing of a Bugle’ foretells
fortunate things coming your way.
Oracle: You may need to sound the call to wake up those aroundyou, or perhaps be woken yourself. The situation facing you may
be bogged down in irrational complexity, when everybody needsto have a central focus and be rallying and going for the objective.There may be unexpected revelations and something may takeyou by shock. If somebody is “sounding off” loudly, it can causeirritation and upset. Is it you, or another, that’s making all thenoise? There may need to be a balance around exactly how muchnoise one should make. Having a cause to loudly “trumpet” can
make people respond by pulling back or being disinterested.Keeping a balance between excited enthusiasm, forwardmomentum and just plain making noise will bring rewards of
some kind - even if it only wakes up those around you. ‘Blowing
the Bugle’ too early, or too forcefully, can put people off, which
can be the exact opposite of what’s desired. This can lead topeople not listening, indeed even running away, instead of beingaroused to their duty. Does everyone around want to hear themessage that’s being trumpeted, or are they trying, or fighting,
to cover their ears? Using simple, receptive innocence will getthe situation on track.
Keywords: Sounding the call. Awakening all to action. Going onandon about something. Loudspeakers, telephones, announcements.Being prepared to state one’s case. Calling attention to one’sself. Blowing your own trumpet. Whistleblowers. Heraldingand proclaiming the dawn. Rise and shine! Girls in a man’sworld. Leading the charge. Resurrection. Mass announcements.Advertising campaigns. Alarm clocks. Ear plugs. Blind folds. Breakthe fast. Proclamations.
The Caution: Making unwarranted and disturbing noise. Showing
off. Unbalanced messages. Evangelists and politicians. Soundingthe call but not making the grade. Being annoying. Trumpetingabout one’s achievements. Not listening to people.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 8
If you wish in this world to
advance, Your merits you're
bound to enhance; You muststir it and stump it,and blowyour own trumpet, Or trust me,you haven't a chance.William Gilbert
The very essence of leadership isthat you have to have a vision.
You can't blow an uncertaintrumpet.Theodore Hesburgh
He seems determined to make atrumpet sound like a tin whistle.Aneurin Bevan
If the trumpet gives anuncertain sound, who shall
prepare himself for the battle?
The Bible
No trumpets sound when theimportant decisions of ourlife are made. Destiny is madeknown silently.
Agnes George DeMille
Stay we no longer, dreamingof renown, but sound thetrumpets, and about our task.
William Shakespeare
Trumpet in a herd of elephants;crow in the company of cocks;bleat ina flock of goats.Malayan Proverb

12-9: THE RACE BEGINS: INTENT ON
OUTDISTANCING HIS RIVALS, AJOCKEY
SPURS HIS HORSE TO GREAT SPEED
Commentary: ‘The Race Begins: Intent on Outdistancing His Rivals,a Jockey Spurs His Horse to Great Speed’ is an image of competition,speed and excitement. The ‘Jockey’ has one goal in mind; he is ‘Intenton Outdistancing His Rivals’.
Oracle: The race is on and you may feel that you are near the finish,but there is no guarantee of victory. Although it is time to extractall available energy possible into the situation, make sure you’re not
expending it too quickly and not really getting anywhere or achievinganything of lasting value. Be careful not to bolt out of the gate without
thought of the ramifications. Watching your competitors brings somereassurance regarding your position, but you can’t always be looking
around, you have to get on with the job at hand. What can you do inthis situation to ensure “the win”? Wanting to be better and faster andwanting the prize can lead to incredible feats and accomplishments,
and this is to be admired and praised. What efforts will push youfurther, faster, than the rest of the field? Having a one-sighted goalof winning the race can lead to a wonderful victory. However, it canalso bring a kind of addiction to outdo others. It can lead to wanting,and needing, to win regardless of the cost. This can alienate you fromothers, especially if attention is always solely on the goal of winning.Be wary of expending your energy too soon as it can lead to runningout of steam before the finish line. Being ‘Intent on Outdistancing’one’s ‘Rivals’ can also lead to feelings of wanting to outdo your ownefforts again and again. Seeing your goal and heading straight towardsit can see you taking first place but how’s your training for thissituation? Have you done the groundwork in order to compete?
Keywords: Competitiveness and high ambitions. Wanting towin, sometimes against the odds. Losing and gaining weight.
Weightlessness. Racing to be first at things. Demanding quick flight.
Bolting out of the gate. Aggressive desires. Exhilaration. Wantingto better oneself. Being on the home run. Speed and the need forit. Facing forward with great intensity. Rivals and competitors. Thevalue of training. Horsemanship. Discipline. Energy poured into thedrive to succeed. Starting whistles, pistols or lights.
The Caution: Galloping at full speed prematurely. Being tooambitious. Ruthless measures. Jumping the gun. Doing anything towin or succeed. Being pushy or single minded. Running out of steambefore the finish line. Weight dropping off too quickly. Sabotage orblocking other’s efforts. Reigning in energy at the last moment.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 9
You were born to win, but to bea winner, you must plan to win,
prepare to win, and expect to win.Zig Ziglar
Courage is being scared to death
but saddling up anyway.John Wayne
What it comes down to is that
anybody can win with the best
horse. What makes you good is if you can take the second or third-best horse and win.Vicky Aragon
Half the failures in life arise from
pulling in one’s horse as he isleaping.A. W. Hare
When my horse is running good,I don’t stop to give him sugar.William Faulkner
Seize the day.Horace
I began to suggest that thought,which I had always before looked on as a cart-horse to be driven, whipped and plodding between shafts, might be really aPegasus, so suddenly did it alight beside me from places I had no knowledge of.Joanna Field
We tolerate shapes in humanbeings that would horrify us ifwe saw them ina horse.
William Ralph Inge

12-10: AN AVIATOR IN THE CLOUDS
Commentary: ‘An Aviator in the Clouds’ is an image of a pilotin his plane flying at such a high altitude that he is amongst the‘Clouds’. It must be exhilarating to be up so high and observingthis wonderful other realm. However, flying high can lead tofeelings of being cut off and separate from reality and the real
world and it is only a matter of time before the ‘Aviator’ mustcome down out of the ‘Clouds’ as the constraints of his more
earth-bound existence eventually kick in.
Oracle: There may be a need to transcend what’s going on and torise above difficulties. You may find that you have to rely on your
intellectual or emotional skills to take you above and beyond your
current situation. Just be aware that you may not be seeing the
complete picture very clearly at the moment. Alternatively, you
may be actively evading the real truth. If you take special notice,you will be able to see through illusions, to see through surfaceappearances and observe things that others may miss. Where areyou sailing in the sky? Is it too high up to be able to really “see”anything? Do you feel the need to disconnect with what’s goingon and to simply observe instead of becoming involved? What willhappen if you keep flying without watching how much fuel youhave at your disposal, and you run out? Whatever the situation,put your energy into enjoying the journey. Watch, observe andlearn about your life from a heightened perspective. Are you the'Pilot' or a co-pilot?
Keywords: Elevated views. Always seeing the best in people andthings. Peace and tranquility. The longing for transcendence.Not seeing limitations. Being in a refined “head space”. Mastery.
Flight, planes, pilots. Avoidance of time constraints. Pollyanna
attitudes. Free flights of fantasy and escapism. The need foraccurate navigation. Being in charge of the controls. Seekinghigher truths. Maps. Compasses. Global satellite positioning.Clouds. Mist and fog. Hang-gliding.
The Caution: Sailing through difficulties or missing what’s reallygoing on. Escapist use of alcohol and drugs, etc. Lack of groundedenergy or reality. Being unearthed. Escaping responsibilities.Isolating oneself. Completely missing the point. Feeling high andmighty and above everyone else, particularly with intellectualskills. Wrong turns. Missing the signs. Feeling like you're livingin a fog. Disconnecting from others, leading to isolation. Losingthe plot. Taking huge risks. One's head being separate from the body.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 10
Here’s a riddle for Our Age: whenthe sky’s the limit, how can youtell you've gone too far?Rita Dove
No bird soars too high if hesoars with his own wings.William Blake
Flying might not be all plainsailing, but the fun of it is worththe price.Amelia Ehrhart
No flying machine will ever
fly from New York to Paris ...
[because] no known motor can
run at the requisite speed for
four days without stopping.
Orville Wright
As we do atsuch times, | turned
on my automatic pilot andwent through the motions ofnormalcy on the outside, so
that! could concentrate all mypowers on surviving the nearmortal wound inside.Sonia Johnson
Don't “over-control” like a novicepilot. Stay loose enough from
the flow that you can observe it,
modify, and improve it.
Donald Rumsfeld

12-11: MEN TRAVELING A NARROW PATH, SEEKING ILLUMINATION
Comentary: 'Men Traveling a Narrow Path, Seeking Illumination' is an image of people on a mission, seeking to fing some knowledge or truth. They are on a journey of discovery, endavoring to find the answers to questions that may have cluded them until now. They are 'Traveling a Narrow Path', one that probably has deep meaning, regardless of perceived outcome in terms of society's expectations. This journey is likely to be a very personal one for each participant, event though there may be many who are 'Seeking' the same things.
Oracle: Sometimes the search for ‘Illumination’, with its highlevels of understanding and idealism, places us at odds with moreconservative, social expectations. It is the ability to perseverewith the search, regardless of the cost, that marks the sincerityof a journey. Most often this quest is ‘Illuminating’, although itcan sometimes be confusing, as new information comes floodinginto the as yet unformed, or uninformed, conscious awareness.You will need to reject that which is unworthy on the ‘Path’ as
it could lead to disillusionment about values and what is trulyworth pursuing. This Symbol can indicate the need to go withoutmany things or having to stick to a strict agenda in order toaccomplish a task, goal or education. It may have taken sometime to find this particular direction in life. Disregarding one’smore mundane physical needs and emotions may be necessary
in the quest for getting to the place of ambition or attainment.
You may have to leave others behind when you set out. As this isa ‘Narrow Path’, not all can share the same endeavor or, indeed,would want to. The rewards are usually rich in some measure as
one moves towards the light, the ‘Illumination’. Maybe you should
ask yourself - are you on ‘a Path’ or a treadmill? Be wary of taking
shortcuts, as these may not lead to the thing that’s intended.
Keywords: People “on the Path’. Sticking to one mindset, diet,regimen or habit. Having a cause to follow. Not looking sideways.Awakening one’s base senses in order to progress. Physicalecstasy. Being in the now. Going towards the light. Staying trueto self. The promise of light at the end of the journey.
The Caution: Blinded by the light. Not knowing where you'rereally going. Disillusionment about what’s been chosen. Beingone-eyed about goals and beliefs. The denial of physical pleasure.
Puritanical behavior. Distractions that stop forward movement.Narrow mindedness.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 11
The difficulties you meet willresolve themselves as youadvance. Proceed, and light will
dawn, and shine with increasing
clearness on your path.
D’Alembert
There are two mistakes onecan make along the road totruth—not going all the way,and not starting.Buddha
On along journey of human life,
faith is the best of companions;it is the best refreshment on the
journey; and it is the greatestproperty.
Buddha
Awake, arise! Strive for theHighest, and be in the Light!Sages say the path is narrow
and difficult to tread, narrow as
the edge of a razor.
Upanishads
Do not say, “I follow the one truepath of the Spirit,” but rather, “/have found the Spirit walkingon my path,” for the Spirit walkson all paths.Khalil Gibran
Ifyou follow your bliss, you
put yourself on a kind of track,
which has been there all the
while waiting for you, and the
life that you ought to be living is
the one you are living.Joseph Campbell

12-12: AN EXAMINATION OF INITIATES IN
THE SANCTUARY OF AN OCCULT
BROTHERHOOD
Commentary: ‘An Examination of Initiates in the Sanctuaryof an Occult Brotherhood’ pictures students, ‘Initiates’, doingtheir ‘Examinations’, and being judged or evaluated by theirelders. They are ‘In the Sanctuary of an Occult Brotherhood’which suggests that they are somehow “cloistered” or closed offfrom the prying eyes of the external world. This may have beenthrough their own choice or it could have been forced on themby society.
Oracle: You may find that those above or around you arejudging or testing you. It is difficult to know just what theirqualifications to judge you are, but this is often the nature ofprogression through the ranks. Sometimes we need to let othersmake their own practical assessments of our individual worth and
‘Examinations’ of any kind can show others the stuff we’re madeof. If you feel that you, or someone else, are being tested and
examined, remember that if you perform at your best that is reallythe best that can be done. People being critical of one anothercan lead to better behavior, better performances or the like, orit can lead to feeling judged, violated and intruded upon. There
might be a desire to pull someone down, particularly someonewho seems to be getting “too big for their boots”. Sometimesit seems that our lives are like lessons, and we are periodically
‘Examined’ to see how we are doing on our "path". Does everyone
want to stay on the same track or are some of them wonderingwhat they’re doing or where they’re going?
Keywords: The ordeal that comes to any initiate for entrance intohigher realms of being. Hermits. Tests, examinations, having toprove oneself. Being judged or being judgmental. Being cross-examined. Rarefied atmospheres that demand personal sacrifice.Initiations. Proving courage and purity. Trials. The attainmentof knowledge. Apprenticeships. Being a candidate. Finding outhow and where one fits in. One-eyed dedication. Trial by media.
Cults. Rituals.
The Caution: Refusing advice. Arrogance. People saying “I toldyou so”. Invading other’s private space. Hiding away because offear or social ridicule. Severe trials and tests that strip the joy oflife. People assuming they know the truth about others. Fear of
failure. Not living up to other’s expectations. Narrow mindedness.Harsh treatment. Going without.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 12
To avoid criticism, do nothing,
say nothing, be nothing.Elbert Hubbard
Don't wait for the last judgment;
it takes place every day.
Albert Camus
Great Spirit, help me never tojudge another until |have walkedin his moccasins for two weeks.
Sioux Indian Prayer
The sage, who is living
outside the routine of the world, contemplates his owncharacter, not as an isolatedego manifestation, but inrelation to the laws of life. Hejudges freedom from blame tobe the highest good.I Ching
I was thrown out of college forcheating on the metaphysicsexam; |looked into the soul
of the boy sitting next to me.Woody Allen
Life is a classroom in whicheach of us is being tested, tried,and passed.Robert Thibodeau
These are the times that try
men’s souls.
Thomas Paine
Don't judge a book by it's cover.Old Saying

12-13: A SWORD, USED IN MANY BATTLES, IS NOW IN A MUSEUM
Commentary: ‘A Sword’ that has been ‘Used in Many Battles’ is‘Now in a Museum’. It has most likely seen many struggles, battles
and conflicts. It may have had to defend the honor of someoneor something, and now it is placed in a ‘Museum’ where people
can come and look at it and wonder at its history. The ‘Sword’is such a masculine image, strong, heroic, metallic, sharp, hardand forbidding. The ‘Sword’ has done its job and now needs to
be put away somewhere where it won't need to fight or defend.That it is in ‘A Museum’ points to the fact that it is a reminder of
the battles of days gone by.
Oracle: When reminded of the ‘Battles’ of the past, hopefully
we are influenced towards peace, but we are also uplifted by
the memory of the strength of the participants, their bravery andvalor. You may be faced with the choice of fighting for something
or reasoning with the intellect. This can be confusing if you lacktraining or experience in the ways of doing ‘Battle’. The obviousmessage is that it’s time to lay down one’s ‘Sword’, not in order
to necessarily surrender, but to stop “the warring”. Perhaps thispictures someone who doesn’t know when to give up takingothers on and fighting. This Symbol shows it’s time to give up‘Battling’, to aim now for more peaceful solutions. There mayhave been a lot learnt in the ‘Battles’ you’ve experienced, butthe thing that’s best learnt is that continuing to fight may lead toa bitter end, with no one being a true winner. Now’s the time tolay down the ‘Sword’ and accept love and peace back into yourlife. Putting the ‘Sword’ away in a ‘Museum’ can allow others tobenefit from the struggles that have been undertaken, withoutworrying about how this weapon will be used in the future. Howlong can one go on battling, fighting and defending?
Keywords: Willpower. Martial arts. Putting aside thoughts ofvengeance and revenge. Hanging up or laying down one’s ‘Sword’.Trophies of conquest that remind us of the past. History. Agingand maturing. Retirement. Remnants of battles. Souvenirs ofthe past. “Words as swords”. The Spear of Destiny. The Sword
Excalibur. Disarming weapons. The search for truth and justice.
Suits of armor. Peace at last. Sexual impotence.
The Caution: A lack of sensitivity. A pretense of one’s abilities.Giving up and “falling on one’s sword” from defeat. Grudges.
Wanting to go into ‘Battle’ at the slightest excuse. Selfish agendas.Weapons of mass destruction or weapons of mass distraction?Pre-emptive strikes. Defensive behavior. Domestic violence.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 13
Yet each man kills the thing he
loves, By each let this be heard,Some do it with a bitter look,Some with a flattering word,The coward does it with a kiss,
The brave man with a sword!
Oscar Wilde
If we could read the secrethistory of our enemies weshould find in each man’s life
sorrow and suffering enough to
disarm all hostility.
Longfellow
The basic difference between anordinary man and a warrior is
that a warrior takes everything
as a challenge, while anordinary man takes everythingas eithera blessing or a curse.Don Juan
Logic is like the sword—those
who appeal to it shall perish by it.Samuel Butler
We are going to have peace
even if we have to fight for it.
Dwight D. Eisenhower
The writer, making every effort toappear innocent and noble, takeshis revenge with the pen; whilethe murderer, less hypocritical,takes it with the sword.Christopher Spranger
All who take the sword will
perish by the sword.The Bible

12-14: A WOMAN WRAPPED IN FOX FUR
Commentary: ‘A Woman’ is ‘Wrapped in Fox Fur’. She presentsa beautiful image and one has the sense that she radiates
intelligence, grace and wealth. The ‘Fox Fur’ carries the feeling
of protection being given through the use of wit, tact, diplomacy,glamour and intellect. There is an aura of “street smarts” aboutthe ‘Woman Wrapped in Fox Fur, like she could get out of (orinto) any situation that she chooses.
Oracle: Someone is trying to present an image that will enhancetheir position. Whether this is you or another, using intelligence
and wit will probably see one through. If, however, the guise,or disguise, were to be stripped away, would the same qualitiesbe expressed? You may find that you have to display your
capabilities because you suffer negative prejudice, chauvinism,or are underestimated. It may be that you are not being listenedto. Difficulties can arise when others misunderstand what it is thatyou are projecting and over or under-estimate your message. In
any case, there’s a need to be quick witted and perceptive. Also,there may be occasion to have to change strategies quickly. Thiscan show proof of your intelligence and your ability to “think
on your feet”. The display of elegance has to be come not only
from your appearance and your demeanor but also through thethings you say. It is important to be able to deliver and follow
through on the image you portray. Any artificial attempts to tryto fool others about how smart you are may lead to unwarrantedreactions. However, do be wary of focusing solely on others’perceptions of you. This Symbol can also represent the desire toshow off one’s wealth, as though possessions and material gainsare an example of class and intelligence. You may lose track ofwhat you truly feel about yourself.
Keywords: Outer expressions of real inner worth. Animal
magnetism and attraction. Intelligence and its display. Cloaksof feminine wit and sexuality. Beguiling minds. Animal totemsand furs. Perceived beauty. The sense of having class and money.Beauty, fashion and talent. Being forward and upfront. Sense of
personal style. Grace and composure. Elegance. Knowing what
to say and when. Dressing up. Money spent on beauty. Tempting
others with sexual signals. Perfumes. Pheromones. Taxidermy.
The Caution: False fronts and expressions of wealth. Sellingout for momentary, or monetary, gain. Wrapped in intellectual
superficiality. The fatal allure of beauty. Scoring points solelythrough charisma. Being so caught up in fashion and glamor thatone loses a true sense of self. Being overdressed.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 14
Beauty: That power by whichawoman charms a lover and
terrifies a husband.
Ambrose Bierce
Plain women know more about
men than beautiful women do.Katharine Hepburn
Instinct is untaught ability.Alexander Bain
Girls have an unfair advantageover men: if they can’t get whatthey want by being smart, theycan get it by being dumb.Yul Brynner
Money is better than poverty,if only for financial reasons.
Woody Allen
There is nothing so agonizing
to the fine skin of vanity as theapplication of a rough truth.Edward G. Bulwer-Lytton
In our society those who are in
reality superior in intelligencecan be accepted by their fellows
only if they pretend they are not.Marya Mannes
The common practice ofkeeping up appearances withsociety is a mere selfish struggle
of the vain with the vain.John Ruskin
For me, elegance is not to passunnoticed but to get to the verysoul of what one is.
Christian Lacroix

12-15: AN OFFICER DRILLING HIS MEN IN A SIMULATED ATTACK
Commentary: 'An Officer Drilling his Men in a Simulated Attack'. Sometimes in life, the danger of things is overstated, exaggerated and overestimated and it looks like all hell is going to break lose at any minute. However, there is wisdom in practicing being on the alert to reduce the chance of error of failure when a real 'Attack' comes along. Putting on a show of strength in order to put off threats from the outside can help promote feelings of safety and solidarity.
Oracle: You may need to rehearse or prepare for a difficult upcoming
situation. It’s true that if we stay alert to the possibility of ‘Attack’
or confrontation, it helps us to respond when it’s really necessary.
However, often the expected ‘Attack’ never eventuates. Sometimesthere is more energy expended in the ‘Drilling’ of tactical maneuversthan exists in the actual threat itself. The trick is to be able keep on
one’s guard, and to relax at the same time. People can be yelled at and
commanded to respond in a certain way to the point where they lose
their sense of natural spontaneity, fun and lightheartedness of being.
There could be provocation and possibly downright bullying, but it
probably doesn’t have much substance, especially if you don’t allowit any. Keeping a strong sense of your own authority will ensure abetter outcome for all. How prepared are you for what might happen?Are you going over the possible outcomes a little too much, therebylosing the joy that can be found in relaxing or letting down yourguard? Is there someone picking on you or telling you what to do, or
are you the perpetrator yourself? One exercise for disciplining the
mind is to make up some positive commands and apply them to your
everyday thoughts. Try allowing only positive thoughts. Witnessingthe mind for negative, self-defeating or annoying messages can stopthem dead in their tracks.
Keywords: Taking orders to better respond to situations. Thehigher self training the lower self. Exercises. Marching and goingthrough the motions. The need for defense. Seeing ahead. Planning
strategies. Fire drills. Smoke alarms. Being prepared. Issuing orders
and expecting them to be followed through. Discipline. Martial artsof all kinds. Going over and over possible outcomes. Safeguards putin place. Gas masks and bomb shelters.
The Caution: Rigid routine for no real or valuable purpose.Feeling that one has always to be on the defensive. Being underattack, whether real or imagined. Overreacting to things. Feelingsof unworthiness in the face of battle or confrontation. Victimconsciousness. Fearful responses. Getting others to respond throughspreading fear. Scare tactics.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 15
It is hard to fight an enemy who
has outposts in your head.
Sally Kempton
It takes 15,000 casualties to traina major general.Ferdinand Foch
We are not ready for anunforeseen event that may or
may not occur.Dan Quayle
Do not touch anything
unnecessarily. Beware of prettygirls in dance halls and parks
who may be spies, as well as
bicycles, revolvers, uniforms,
arms, dead horses, and men lying
on roads—they are not thereaccidentally.
Soviet infantry manual, issued
in the 1930%s
A frightened captain makes a
frightened crew.Lister Sinclair
Military intelligence is acontradiction in terms.
Groucho Marx
To be prepared against surpriseis to be trained. To be prepared
for surprise is to be educated.
James Carse
You have to be fast on your feetand adaptive or else a strategy is
useless.
Lou Gerstner

12-16: IN A QUIET MOMENT, A CREATIVE
INDIVIDUAL EXPERIENCES THE
FLOW OF INSPIRATION
Commentary: ‘A Quiet Moment’ is pictured in which ‘ACreative Individual Experiences The Flow of Inspiration’. The‘Creative Individual’ can experience rushes of energy, thoughtand ‘Inspiration’ through finding some ‘Quiet’ time or throughmeditation.
Oracle: The ‘Flow of Inspiration’ will come if you allow it
through and the more creative you allow yourself to be, themore ‘Inspiration’ there will be. Taking time out for things suchas meditation, looking at art or the beauty of nature will allow
for the peace that’s needed to stop any hurrying thoughts. One’swhole life can be changed, in a ‘Moment’, when the mind is stilledand creative solutions are allowed to come through. You may
find that with each idea or ‘Creative Inspiration’ there followsanother and another. This is a great time to relax and go with
the flow neither fighting against anything nor pushing forward.If things have been hectic in your life and you're looking for
guidance, hope and inspiration, try spending a ‘Quiet Moment’ by
yourself and allow your intuition to come through. This Symbolshows that no matter what the problem, it will be resolved intime spent contemplating it with the right attitude. Negativethoughts can keep one locked in a cycle of negativity. Closed
minds and fixed attitudes will not help in this situation. You mayfind that answers to questions or situations come when you're
least expecting them, e.g. when you're in the bath or going fora walk. Creative projects that have had difficulty being started
(or completed) may indeed begin to find form. Hold on to anyimpressions you get and before long you'll start to see the solution
to your problem or situation.
Keywords: Creativity inspired from above. Openness to higherforces and ideals. Realizations. Dreams. Channeling thoughtsand feelings. Messages from one’s higher self. Finding solutions.Moments of calm leading to resolutions. Free flowing thoughts.The gift of inspiration. Turning on the tap of creativity. Blockages unblocked.
The Caution: Being too tired to meditate. Choosing to be unawareor to sleep instead of thinking purposefully. Not talking aboutwhat needs to be said. Having a lot of ideas that don’t translateinto reality. Shutting off from others. Loud voices in the head.
Schizophrenia.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 16
There never was a great soulthat did not have some divineinspiration.Marcus Tullius Cicero
Whatever is your best timein the day, give that tocommunion with God.Hudson Taylor
Inspiration never arrived whenyou were searching for it.
Lisa Alther
Cease trying to work everythingout with your minds. It will getyou nowhere. Live by intuition
and inspiration and let yourwhole life be Revelation.Eileen Caddy
When inspiration does notcome,! go for a walk, go to themovie, talk to a friend, let go... Fhe muse is bound to return
again, especially if! turn my
back!
Judy Collins
Wonders will never cease.
David Garrick
What to do when inspiration
doesn't come: Be careful not to
spook, get the wind up, force
things into position. You must
wait around until the ideacomes.
John Huston
In life you need eitherinspiration or desperation.Anthony Robbins

12-17: AN EASTER PROMENADE
Commentary: ‘An Easter Promenade’ is seen. A ‘Promenade’ is
defined as a “leisurely walk taken for pleasure, to display one’sfinery, etc.” The ‘Easter Promenade’ is a celebration of brightclothes, fancy hats, and competitions, with appearances by suchthings as the easter bunny. This is a tradition born more out of theolder celebrations of the spring solstice than the Christian festival
of Easter and the crucifixion, but these separate festivals long agobecame combined and they now compliment each other. In thenorthern hemisphere our souls are renewed with the beauty of
spring approaching and the celebration of the resurrection of
Jesus. Feelings of hope and faith are deepened during this verysignificant event in the Christian calendar.
Oracle: There is regularly a need to share with others the
celebration of your community’s religious or spiritual aspirationsand ideals. It doesn’t matter whether there is a feeling of actualreligious cohesion amongst the people in this ‘Easter Promenade’,it’s more about sharing strong community values. Often, the
actual meaning behind the celebration is completely ignored.New traditions can build on old traditions until, sometimes, theorigins can seem lost, blurred or forgotten. This is not really aproblem as long as it brings people together in an atmosphereof peace and joy. On a deeper level, there may be other layers of
meaning to these celebrations that have also been lost completely,
but nevertheless leave a vibration or resonance that is in ourunconscious awareness. The ‘Easter Promenade’ is about thelayering of traditions and to some extent the superimposing ofnew traditions on the old. No matter how structured or organizedthis celebration is, if it’s done with joy and warmth of feeling, it
will inspirit the group, infusing them with a sense of emotionalunity. It is the combination of celebrations of rebirth, fertility andthe communal renewal of faith in the good things of life.
Keywords: Renewed faith in one’s life circumstances. Rising up
from doubt, fear and loss. Public holidays and their celebrations.Dressing up. Easter bonnets. Easter eggs, chickens and the fertilityrites of spring. Rebirth. Forgiveness. Joy. Spiritual unity. Religious
holidays. Worship. Renewal. Parades. Transformation.
The Caution: Superficial shows of unity. Craving for attention.Always needing an excuse to get together and unite. Emptydisplays of faith or joy. Doing things only because everyone elseis doing them. Feeling lost, alone and forsaken in the crowd. Guilttrips. Exclusion of other faiths. Religious domination.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 17
Do not abandon yourselves todespair....We are the Easter
people and hallelujah is oursong.Pope John Paul Il
I come not to entertain youwith worldly festivities but
arouse your sleeping memoryof immortality.Paramahansa Yogananda
Any ritual is an opportunity fortransformation.
Starhawk
The Easter feeling does not end.
It signals a new beginning, Of
nature, spring, and brand new life,
And friendship, peace, and giving.
The spirit of Easter is all aboutHope, love, and joyful living.Anon
Easter is the gift of hope Easteris the gift of peace Easter is thegift of love Let us rejoice in Him,
Who gives them all.Anon
And when it rains on yourparade, look up rather than
down. Without the rain, therewould be no rainbow.Jerry Chin

12-18: IN A HUGE TENT A FAMOUS
REVIVALIST CONDUCTS HIS MEETING
WITH A SPECTACULAR PERFORMANCE
Commentary: ‘In a Huge Tent a Famous Revivalist Conducts HisMeeting With a Spectacular Performance’. This pictures somebody
who has the ability to get people up and going on a spiritual,emotional and physical level. Words of hope and redemption andthe giving of one’s self to higher purposes and goals are delivered.He works hard to ensure that his words strike the minds and heartsof those listening. Singing and dancing can erupt out of people incelebration. This is largely the result of the passion of the ‘Famous
Revivalist’ and the audience may be very inspired by the occasionwith people joining in, in some way.
Oracle: You may find there is a need to organize and stage a displayof the situation, bringing the community together in a common goal.The symbolism of the ‘Huge Tent’ can represent many things; it canbe aschool hall, a church, a circus tent, an outdoor arena all the wayup to something such as the worldwide web. It indicates anywherepeople come together to experience a lecture or a performance, or,as this Symbol pictures ‘A Famous Revivalist’. They gather to listen toinspired and inspiring messages being delivered. There is a need forcaution, though, as sometimes this can picture situations of hysteria,overstating one’s case, or having the audience get out of control. Withthe power to influence or sway groups of people, there needs to besome feeling of care and moderation. People are often prepared tolisten, but for how long? Is the audience listening? Is the cause just?The person ‘Conducting His Meeting’ may be arrogant and believethat only he has the true answers. Sometimes the ‘Revivalist’ mayneed to top up his own knowledge, feelings and understanding aboutlife and spirituality by listening to those around him.
Keywords: Energy and inspiration. Evangelism. Whipped upemotions. Having a lot to say. Being instructional and dogmaticabout how things should be. Being in charge. Ecstasy. Loud voices.Conversations that are said out loud. Acoustics affecting sounds.
Preaching. Mind control. Performing. Political, religious and spiritualactivism. Showmanship. Transformative experiences. Captivatedaudiences. The media circus.
The Caution: Using spiritualism for greedy financial gain. Overblownfeelings of one’s abilities. Big egos. Hysteria. People whipped-up and
manipulated by those in charge. Having the agenda of controllingothers. Feeling that one has all the answers. Getting het-up aboutideals and beliefs. Manipulation and exploitation. Bigotry.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 18
One filled with joy preacheswithout preaching.
Mother Teresa
Aman must have a good dealof vanity who believes, and
a good deal of boldness who
affirms, that all the doctrines heholds are true, and all he rejectsare false.Benjamin Franklin
What is true preaching like?Instead of preaching to others,if one worships God all the time,
that is enough preaching. Hewho strives to make himselffree is the real preacher.Hundreds come from all sides,
no one knows whence, to himwho is free, and are taught byhim.When a rosebud blooms,the bees come from all sidesuninvited and unasked.
Sri Ramakrishna
A fool always finds somegreater fool to admire him.Nicholas Boileau
Condense some daily
experience into a glowing
symbol, and the audience iselectrified.Ralph Waldo Emerson
Good teaching is one-fourthpreparation and three-fourthstheater.Gail Godwin

12-19: A MASTER INSTRUCTING HIS
DISCIPLE
Commentary: 'A Master' is 'Instructing His Discpiple'. He is giving his 'Disciple Instruction' on how to handle life in the spiriual, intellectual and emotional realms. The 'Dispiple' must listen to all the 'Master' says and teaches and must learn from his example. There's an old saying, "when the student is ready, the teacher appears". It could be easily also be "when the student is ready, the lesson appears" - there are many ways to learn life's lessons.
Oracle: This is a time for the transfer of higher knowledge andwisdom. In this situation you may find that you are the teacher,
the ‘Master’, or the pupil, the ‘Disciple’. Remember that it is often
the teacher that learns and the pupil that teaches. Perhaps it’s timefor listening to your own higher wisdom. The teacher can inspire
great personal achievements through teaching the wisdom thatthe ‘Disciple’ is ready and willing to learn. These lessons can be
on many levels, from the purest of teaching and education all the
way to downright emotional manipulation: the teachings that are
being passed on can be used to elevate or manipulate the thoughts
and emotions of the ‘Disciple’. People will sometimes believe themessage coming from the ‘Master’ without questioning, merelybecause of his charisma and presence. The ‘Master’ may have analternate agenda that he wants to fulfill. There is sometimes a needto separate the actual person of the ‘Master’ from that which heis teaching, as they are not necessarily the same. The ‘Master’ isonly human, after all. Someone having something worthwhileto say will find someone who will listen to it.
Keywords: To give and to receive. Lessons that need to be welllearnt. The transfer of knowledge. Taking time to instruct others.Being willing to both teach and learn. Step-by-step lessons.Passing on information. Instructions and directions. Layingdown the law with someone. Manuscripts and lessons. Masters.Gurus. Guiding lights. Reinforcement of knowledge, wisdom andspirituality. Listening and learning. Knowing what questions toask. Doing homework. Being or setting a good example.
The Caution: Dogmatic instruction by rote. Talking down toothers, thinking they know less. Someone having a “know it all”attitude. Manipulating people for one’s personal agenda. Using
knowledge as power over people. Feeling above everyone else.
Co-dependant behaviour. One-eyed attitudes. Losing oneself in
another.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 19
Knowledge increases inproportion to its use—that is,the more we teach the more welearn.H.P. Blavatsky
Teach thy tongue to say! do not
know and thou shalt progress.Maimonides
By learning you will teach; byteaching you will learn.
Latin Proverb
The true teacher defends hispupils against his own personal
influence. He inspires self-distrust.He guides their eyes from himself
to the spirit that quickens him. Hewill have no disciple.Amos Bronson Alcott
Jesus was all right, but his
disciples were thick andordinary. It’s them twisting it
that ruins it for me.
John Lennon
I can tell you, honest friend, whatto believe: believe life; it teaches
better than book or orator.Goethe
Do not believe what yourteacher tells you merely out ofrespect for the teacher.Buddha

12-20: A TABLE SET FOR AN EVENING MEAL
Commentary: ‘A Table’ is ‘Set for an Evening Meal’. This imagebrings to mind ‘A Table’ having been prepared, the food cooked
and the hospitality being served up for those who come together
to share. There’s no mention of how many people are to be at this
‘Meal’, but attention has been, or should be, given to the propernourishment of body, mind and soul.
Oracle: The ‘Table’ may be set for a celebration, a family, a coupleor just for one. It could be that everything is in place other than
the substance, which may be still in preparation, and those to sitat the ‘Table’ to appreciate it. If the ‘Table’ is not only ‘Set’, but
also the food ready and the people enjoying the ‘Meal’, there’sthe need for a calm state of mind and a quiet and receptive heart.
Having said that, it’s not always possible to have peace and quietat the dinner table. Issues of the day may be brought to the
‘Table’ to be discussed, and these may disturb the atmosphereor need resolution. Still, it’s important to have a calm and quiet
enjoyment whilst eating, as this ensures a healthy mind and bodyThis Symbol is often an assurance of that. Having worked hard andlong, you may need to realize that your needs will be met. You may
find that you have prepared the situation well. What you need willcome. Those already at home, as well as those returning home,
will find comfort, safety and sustenance. Remember to attend tothese everyday tasks with a sense of reverence. Try to rememberto say Grace in thanks for the good things that you have.
Keywords: Provision of life’s necessities. Being well nourished.
Having to prepare for others. Issues of “who will serve and whowill eat”. Dinner and dinner parties. Issues of nourishment andhaving a roof over one’s head. Food allergies. Food technology.
Breaking bread with others. People bringing a plate to share.Cutlery, plates, glasses. Wine and water. Diets. Groceries. Doingthe dishes. Making a meal of something. Obesity. Attention todetail. Hired hands. Catering. Candles. Sharing life's bounty.
The Caution: Making preparations with no ability to nourishor satisfy. Devouring things or people. Banging on the table
and asking for more. Guilt around issues of providing. Feasts orfamines. Eating syndromes. Empty spaces at the table. Arguingat meal times. Indigestion and heartburn. People not turning upfor dinner. Overindulging. Consuming people. Not appreciatinglife's bounty. Continually having to provide for others. Always
having to come up with what's for dinner.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 20
You can get through life with
bad manners, but it’s easierwith good manners.Lillian Gish
There is no sincerer love thanthe love of food.George Bernard Shaw
The reflections on a day wellspent furnish us with joys morepleasing than ten thousandtriumphs.Thomas A. Kempis
It is a good thing that life isnot as serious as it seems toawaiter.Don Herold
Sometimes you struggle sohard to feed your family oneway, you forget to feed themthe other way, with spiritual
nourishment. Every body needs
that.James Brown
God gave teeth; He will givebread.
Lithuanian Proverb
Man who waits for roast duckto fly into mouth must wait
very, very long time.Chinese Proverb
My doctor told me to stophaving intimate dinners forfour. Unless there are three
other people.
Orson Welles

12-21: A LITTLE WHITE LAMB, A CHILD AND A CHINESE SERVANT
Commentary: 'A Little White Lamb, a Child and Chinese Servant' is a Symbol that shows the innocence and purity of both childhood and the animal realm. The 'Child' is symbolic of potential and curiosity and the need for care and supervisionl and the 'Chinese Servant'
shows the freedom for self-development apart from family influence or dominance. The 'Little White Lamp' is of no threat to the 'Child' even if things get out of control. The 'Chinese Servant' shows that the safety concertns of the 'Child' and, indded, also of the 'Lamb', will be watched over and monitored. Being a 'Chinese Servant', the care will probably be more lenient than if a parent were involved. There is likely to be more consideration of the value of life experience and lessons rather than domination and discipline. The 'Child' pictured may need the guidance, help and nurturance of the 'Chinese Servant' because of special needs or because the parents are too busy with their own lives to provide childcare.
Oracle: Children can be fascinated by small, young animals, butcan be rough as they test the boundaries of the animal’s tolerance.A parent may not like to see the ‘Child’ hurting the ‘Lamb’ at all,
whereas the ‘Chinese Servant’ is more likely to give some latitudein order to learn some lessons. It is natural to try and gain a physicalawareness of one’s situation first. In our earliest years it was thefeeling (or tactile) sense that was initially satisfied. You may needto get back to the basic understanding of your situation. By lookingat your situation from a kind, caring and considerate perspective,
it will be possible to deal with it or solve it in an efficient manner,
rather than becoming flustered and reacting harshly or unjustly. This
Symbol may show the instinct to judge others by what they looklike. Obviously, in this situation, stereotypical images are conjuredup, not only with the ‘Servant, but the ‘Child’ and the ‘Lamb’. It is
important to avoid falling into this trap; instead, try to look underthe surface of things. You may be surprised by what you find.
Keywords: Being protected by higher, more aware, energies. Theprivileges money and social status bring. Awareness of the different
levels of situations. Differing perspectives. Helpers, servants. Care.
Being watched over. Watchfulness. Pets and animals. The supervision
of youngsters. Purity of vision. Caring for the child within.
The Caution: Social incompatibility. Purity merely by nature ofwealth. Not having to grow up because of the social environment.
Not taking responsibility for one’s self. Acting like a brat and gettingaway with it.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 21
Children in ordinary dress may
always play with sand.Hilaire Belloc
The moment the slave resolvesthat he will no longer beaslave, his fetters fall. He freeshimself and shows the way to
others. Freedom and slavery aremental states.Gandhi
In the master there is a servant,in the servant a master.Marcus Tullius Cicero
To maintain a joyful familyrequires much from both the
parents and the children. Eachmember of the family has to
become, in a special way, the
servant of the others.Pope John Paul Il
We teachers can only help thework going on, as servants waitupon a master.Maria Montessori
If thou are a master, besometimes blind; if a servant,sometimes deaf.
Thomas Fuller
Money is a terrible master butan excellent servant.P.T.Barnum

12-22: A PROPHET BRINGING DOWN THE
NEW LAW FROM THE MOUNTAIN
Commentary: ‘A Prophet Bringing Down the New Law From TheMountain’ pictures revelations concerning spirit and truth beingdelivered through the agency of a single individual, the ‘Prophet’.This message, this ‘New Law’ can be “brought down” orally or in
written form in order to be given to the people. ‘Laws’ relate tothe culture of the time and will vary as technology and society
changes, but the ‘Prophet’ is able to manifest ‘Laws’ that will apply
not just for his time, but also for times to come.
Oracle: There is a ‘New Law’ being brought ‘Down From theMountain’ and it is important to make it manifest and integrated
into everyday existence. This Symbol can show people watchingand waiting for what someone has to say, as if it will change theirlives in some way. However, in this day and age it is important
not to take what people say as “gospel” without considering yourown beliefs and thoughts and whether these ‘New Laws’ ring
true to your inner being. Beliefs are something that can bringpeople together, but they can also just as easily tear people apart.Being asked, or forced, to take on new beliefs or codes of livingor being can be confronting. This Symbol can also indicate thingsbeing acted out in “biblical proportions”, with huge fanfare and
importance placed on them, and this may be a good thing, butonly you will know whether these apply to you in your life. Misuse
of messages for the personal gain of the one who’s seen as the‘Prophet’ can lead to alienation and a loss of faith. Although theprinciples of ‘Law’ may stay the same, it is the specifics that must
vary in order to accommodate the changing perceptions of thetimes. It is wonderful if the message resonates with you, but if itdoesn’t you should be able to choose another code for living.
Keywords: Revelations and channeling of new information.Truths being revealed. Thoughts, ideas, guidelines. The TenCommandments. Laying down the law. New resolutions. New
pathways of living. Social justice messages. The Koran. The Torah.The Bible. Finding records. People of the book. The Ark of theCovenant. Newly codified laws. Amendments. The Testaments.
Avatars and guides. Moses. Mt. Sinai. Legislation. Laws enacted.Legislation.
The Caution: Being told what to do. Believing that one has allthe answers OR believing that someone else has all the answers.Disregarding the religious ways of the past. Rules set in stone.
The statement “this is what’s going to happen’. Rigid applicationof dogmatic moral codes.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 22
The words printed here areconcepts. You must go through_ the experiences.
Frederick Frieseke
Every age hath its book.The Koran
The 7 Deadly Sins are: Wealth
without work; Pleasure without
conscience; Knowledge withoutcharacter; Business withoutmorality; Science without
humanity; Worship withoutsacrifice; Politics withoutprinciple.Mahatma Gandhi
The ideas |stand for aren’t mine.I borrowed them from Socrates. |
swiped them from Chesterfield. I stole them from Jesus.And I putthem in a book. Ifyou don't like their rules, whose would you use?
Dale Carnegie
Any fool can make a rule, and
any fool will mind it.
Henry David Thoreau
Three things it is best to avoid:astrange dog, a flood,andamanwho thinks he is wise.
Welsh Proverb
There is no such thing as a moral
oran immoral book. Books arewell written, or badly written.Oscar Wilde
Only law can give us freedom.
Johann Wolfgang Von Goethe

12-23: A MATERIALIZING MEDIUM GIVING A SEANCE
Commentary: 'A Materializing Meidum' has a sensitivity to and awareness of spiritual forces. She is 'Giving a Se1ance', and can manifest messages from spirit that are given from the "other side". Roget's Thesaurus defines 'Medium' as meaning "That by which something is accomplished or some end achieved: agency, agent, instrument" who is able to receive radiations, frequencies, or vibrations that cannnot easily be sensed by most people.
Oracle: Many things can be ‘Materialized’ in our lives; they can come
seemingly out of nowhere. They may be messages, voices, noises,
stories or episodes from one’s life. Objects can be ‘Materialized’ as well;
Wwe can conjure them up. Sometimes it can cause confusion, other timesenlightenment. Realizing that one can create their own reality and theresponsibility implied can lead to the belief that just about anything is
possible in one’s life. The things that are ‘Materialized’ can be tangibleand rewarding things, however, there should be some caution assometimes they can have more to do with drama and show ratherthan having any real or lasting substance. Sit with any new impressionsyou may be receiving until you understand the authenticity or depth.If you have to do something or perform in front of people, rest assured
that with the right attitude and a little preparation there should be no
problem. You may have the talent and the ability to make things up asyou go along. Energy can feel as though it is coursing “through you’.Notice the physical evidence that leads you to realize, see or “hear”messages. Certain words standing out in a newspaper or magazine,words of a song that bring messages, something special noticed in aphoto or other image, etc. Pay attention to these messages and allowthem to inspire you to connect with whatever and whoever is guidingyou. Aspects of personality can erupt, at appropriate or sometimesinappropriate moments. How much is true in this situation and howmuch is made-up or imagined?
Keywords: Spiritual channeling. A need to free up “stuck” orearthbound entities. Efforts to materialize things. Coming straight
out with things. Giving voice to spirit. Tarot readings, clairvoyanceand clairsentience. Things seen ahead of their time. Bringing messagesfrom the other side. Contacting the dead.
The Caution: Putting on a false front. Merely doing a performancefor others. Making things up. Using mind control over others to geta desired outcome. Using sensational methods to induce others togive up control over their own lives. Exorcisms performed by theinexperienced. Inviting weird energies or people.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 23
Be careful of your thoughts;
they may become words at anymoment.Lara Gassen
The act of contemplationcreates the thing contemplated.
Isaac D'Israeli
Only he who can see the
invisible can do the impossible.Frank Gaines
laman invisible man.No,lamnot a spook like those who
haunted Edgar Allen Poe noram |one of your Hollywood-movie ectoplasms.!am amanof substance, of flesh and bone,fiber and liquids—and | mighteven be said to possess a mind.lam invisible, simply because
people refuse to see me.
Ralph Ellison
Faith is power to believe andpower to see.
Prentice Mulford
What does mysticism really
mean? It means the way to
attain knowledge. It’s closeto philosophy, except inphilosophy you go horizontallywhile in mysticism you govertically.Elie Wiesel

12-24: THE TINY ISLAND SEEMS LOST IN
THE BROAD OCEAN, BUT ITS HAPPY
INHABITANTS HAVE CREATED A
WORLD ALL THEIR OWN
Commentary: ‘The Tiny Island’ shows a tiny speck of territory in
amongst the ‘Broad Ocean’. It implies a small area of people living
together. 'Its Happy Inhabitants Have Created a World All Their Own’;
they have created their own happiness on this somewhat isolated
piece of turf. They have carved their life together, but as this is a‘Tiny Island’, there’s a need for compromise in order to sustain goodcommunity relations.
Oracle: There are issues of having to learn to get along with people.Drawn together by similar circumstances, hopes or ambitions, it isironic that sometimes compromise, for the sake of agreement, is theonly way to successful coexistence. There is a clear boundary withinwhich everyone concerned must be considered. This can lead to a lackof privacy or intimate exchanges between people. To leave anyone out
can lead to divisions and problems of territory and/or possessions. To
include others can bring other problems. Issues of territory and one’sspace will come up eventually. The positive aspect of the ‘Island’ is
that you can have clear boundaries and expand your energies into
your space. This may be about family, a work situation, or it may takein your whole world. The key is to adapt, consider others and use theavailable energies in the situation to create something worthwhile.Celebrate each other rather than diminish them for their individuality.However, too many people living closely together can lead to feelinglike you're living on “main street”, with some not being able to just
hang out and let loose. Having people dropping in can be pleasurableand fun or it can be compromising, as time, space and privacy arelost. Do the same people turn up in your life again and again? Who
are you comfortable sharing your space with? Who would you share
your desert island with? What possessions would you take if you could
only take a few?
Keywords: Adaptability and cohabitation. People jammed in. Seekingothers of like mind. Knowing a lot of people. Always consideringothers. Noise and light pollution. Feeling like new blood is needed inorder to grow and flourish. Coexistence. Apartments. Living together.People moving in.
The Caution: Cutting off from those around. Not having enough
privacy—or space. Things being kept too “all in the family”. No chanceto be alone. Pollution and garbage. Crowding out people. Lonelinesseven amongst many. Being deserted and lost.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 24
No man is an Island, entire of
itself; every man is a piece of theContinent, a part of the main; ifa clod be washed away by thesea, Europe is the less, as well
as ifa promontory were, as wellas ifa manor of thy friends or
of thine own were; any man’s
death diminishes me, because
lam involved in Mankind; And
therefore never send to know
for whom the bell tolls; It tolls
for thee.
John Donne
How I wish that somewherethere existed an island for thosewho are wise and of good will.Albert Einstein
In a sense, each of us is an island.In another sense, however, weare all one. For though islandsappear separate,and may evenbe situated at great distances
from one another, they are onlyextrusions of the same planet,earth.
J. Donald Walters
Why are they called apartments
when they are all stuck
together?Anon

12-25: THE PURGIN OF THE PRIESTHOOD
Commentary: 'The Purging of the Priesthood' is an image of people having to measure up to spiritual or moral values. Whoever upholads a position in the 'Priesthood' should act in an appropriate manner and minister to the needs of people without any ulterior motives. When people don't live up to their duties or the expectation of others, it often leads to someone having to leave, retire, resign or be ejected. 'Purging' means to get rid of and it can lead to scapegoats: those that are thrown in to desert, abandoned and forgotten.
Oracle: Periodically, there is a need to cleanse and purify motives,
leading to a better representation of moral and spiritual values.Sometimes we need to reexamine moral and spiritual sincerityin a person, corporation, community or situation. Getting ridof people or ideals that hold one back can open up situations
to more trust, sharing and enjoyment. You may have to dismiss
someone, or a group of people, from their duties or from their
ability to affect your life in some way. It is easy to lose sight of theideal through the use of the rationalizing mind, the ego, securityissues or emotive passion. However, if someone has not livedup to their responsibilities on some level, often it’s best for thefuture, and one’s peace of mind, to be free of them. It may leadto a breakthrough in the understanding of where they’ve gone“off the rails”, as well. Sometimes there’s a need to get clearly outof the reach of people’s “influence”. People who hold ‘Priestly’attitudes often have quite a lot of power and hold on others.
People will often give them power, thereby forsaking their ownpowers in the process. What side of this ‘Purging’ are you on?
Are you the one with the “right” motives? There could be a fear
of rejection at work. Whatever your situation, stating your truthand staying with it is the best option.
Keywords: Revealing the truth of people for who and what theytruly are. Cutting people off. Throwing out things that don’tmeasure up. Forced retirement and redundancies. Payouts at the
end of employment. Dismissals. Opting out for moral reasons.
Being fired. Holes left where someone took up a lot of space.
The Caution: Stressful battle over who’s in charge. Blackmail. Thethreat of being thrown out. Something being revealed. Evictingpeople because they deceive, lie or mislead or just becausethey’re not liked. Bringing somebody down. Scapegoatingothers. Corruption and scandal that threaten collapse. Wantingto appear to be doing the right thing. Coverups. The burning ofbooks. Perversion.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 25
Sometimes you've got to
let everything go—purgeyourself. Ifyou are unhappy
with anything ... whatever isbringing you down, get rid of it.Because you'll find that whenyou're free, your true creativity,your true self comes out.Tina Turner
It has been my experience thatfolks who have no vices havevery few virtues.Abraham Lincoln
A priest isa man who is calledFather by everyone except hisown children who are obligedto call him Uncle.
Italian Proverb
Whoever undertakes to set
himself up as a judge in the
field of truth and knowledge is
shipwrecked by the laughter of
the Gods.
Albert Einstein
The heresies we should fear arethose which can be confusedwith orthodoxy.
Jorge Luis Borges
Faith is not a thing which one
“loses,” we merely cease to
shape our lives by it.Georges Bernanos
He that serves at the altarought to live by the altar.Romanian Proverb

12-26: A NEW MOON REVEALS THAT IT’S
TIME FOR PEOPLE TO GO AHEAD
WITH THEIR DIFFERENT PROJECTS
Commentary: ‘A New Moon Reveals That it’s Time For People to GoAhead With Their Different Projects’ shows the realization of anewtime dawning; there’s a new beginning. Each month, at the ‘NewMoon’, there is the necessary energy and impetus to get new things
started. It is conventionally a time to put energy into anything new
in your life, as it will have forward momentum.
Oracle: There’s an image here of the emergence of new possibilities
and new horizons. This Symbol can imply a moving away from or
a splitting up of people, however this may not always be the case.There could be a call for a couple to split off from the rest of thefamily, or somebody might need some space to be alone or get on
with something they want or need to do. Hence it doesn’t alwaysmean a split or separation, although it certainly can. People havetheir own responses to situations, so it is important not to expecteveryone to react in the same way when something unexpected,
or new, comes up. Periodically, there is a need to let things go fromthe past. Relationships, jobs, friendships; in fact any situation at allmight be coming to completion, or needing a break for a while. There
can be the feeling of a dividing wall coming up between you andothers. This situation may have been brewing for some time and now
the consequences of it are coming to light. However, if people aregiven their own measure of freedom, they may come back togetherwhen the time and the energy is right. Perhaps it’s a good idea todirect some energy into a new project at the time of the next ‘New
Moon’. Light a candle and state your intentions with honesty andfeel the effects of the rewards that can come flooding in with thisnew beginning. Remember to honor “the other”, the other personwho may have their own ‘Project’ or path to follow.
Keywords: Diversifying. Applying talents in a different direction.People splitting up and splitting off. New opportunities andpotentials. The beginning of a new age. Letting go of the old andoutworn. Separations. Embracing one’s future without the need forothers. Coming to a fork in the road. Divorces. New jobs, directionsand destinies. The dawning of a new era.
The Caution: Not giving, or receiving emotional support. Feelingsplit off and alone, even when one is with others. The fear andloathing of possible separation. Overthrowing the old too quickly.
Changing direction unexpectedly. The fear of old age. Relationshipsthat fail again and again.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 26
A person needs at intervals toseparate himself from family
and companions and go to newplaces. He must go without his
familiars in order to be open toinfluences, to change.
Katharine Butler Hathaway
O, swear not by the moon, th’inconstant moon, That monthlychanges in her circled orb, Lestthat thy love prove likewise
variable.William Shakespeare
Although the connections are
not always obvious, personalchange is inseparable fromsocial and political change.Harriet Lerner
Separation secures manifestfriendship.
Indian Proverb
The difference between divorce
and legal separation is that
a legal separation gives a
husband time to hide hismoney.Johnny Carson
There is a star above us whichunites souls of the first order,though worlds and agesseparate them.Christina of Sweden
We must change in order to
survive.
Pearl Bailey

12-27: A HARVEST MOON ILLUMINATES
THE SKY
Commentary: ‘A Harvest Moon Illuminates the Sky’. This is anextraordinary Symbol, considering the fact that these Symbolscame through the clairvoyant, Elsie Wheeler, in random order.It’s extraordinary because the ‘Harvest Moon’ can very easilyfall on this degree, as the ‘Harvest Moon’ is calculated as the fullmoon occurring nearest to the autumnal equinox in the northernhemisphere, about September 23. On several nights in succession,at this time of the year, the moonrise is at nearly the same time,because of the relation of the moon’s path to the horizon. Onthese nights, there is full moonlight almost from sunset to sunriseif the sky is unclouded.
Oracle: This Symbol shows an abundant time of ‘Harvest’. The
‘Harvest Moon’ is a positive sign, with high energy abounding.
The sky is clear and conditions are perfect. It’s a time of fertility
and abundance, but it is also a sign that there may still be much
work to be done. For now, although this can be an opportunity torelax, enjoy, and to conserve strength in anticipation of the tasks
ahead. For the time being, you can reap the benefits of the workthat’s been accomplished so far. There can be strong feelings ofeulmination, fertility and fullness. You may feel that it has takena while to get where you are, and this is a good chance to take
some time out to celebrate and reconnect with family and lovedones. Capture this magical moment whilst it lasts, as the energy
may start to wane before you know it. However, while it is greatnow to celebrate the achievements of the ‘Harvest’, it is also a
time of self-discipline because the task must be completed or
the fruits of one’s labors may go rotten or be wasted. Be surenot to get so carried away in the celebration that you neglectfinishing the tasks before you. With all of this light ‘luminating’the night ‘Sky’, take a look around with open eyes and see what
can be seen.
Keywords: Situations that are very ripe and full of fruition.
Celebrating what you have. Expanded perspective makingeverything clear. A sense of achievement. Seizing the momentto make the most of what’s possible. Nature’s bounty. The beautyof the moon in the night sky.
The Caution: Neglecting the tasks at hand because of the appearance of abudance. Achievements waning because of neglect. Wasting enery on inconsquential activities. "Lunatic" behaviour. Not being able to sleep.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 27
Sow a thought, reap an action;sow an action, reap a habit; sowa habit, reap a character; sow acharacter; reap a destiny.Anon
Sow much, reap much; sow little,
reap little.
Chinese Proverb
Give fools their gold,andknaves their power; Let fortune’s
bubbles rise and fall; Who sows a
field, or trains a flower, Or plants
a tree, is more than all.
John Greenleaf Whittier
Under the harvest moon, Whenthe soft silver Drips shimmering
Over the garden nights, Death,
the gray mocker, Comes andwhispers to you As a beautiful
friend Who remembers.Carl Sandburg
Write your wishes on the door
and come in. Stand outside in
the pools of the harvest moon.Carl Sandburg
Talk unbelief, and you will haveunbelief; but talk faith,and youwill have faith. According to theseed sown will be the harvest.Ellen G.White
Everyone isa moon,and has adark side which he never shows
anyone.Mark Twain

12-28: A FERTILE GARDEN UNDER THE
FULL MOON
Commentary: The symbol, ‘A Fertile Garden Under the FullMoon is a vital, alive and positive picture. This is a very powerful
image of the Goddess energy. Not only is it the ‘Fertile Garden’of creativity and growing life, but also the gentle light and waterenergy of ‘The Full Moon’ is radiating energy through it.
Oracle: The “tidal” effect of the ‘Full Moon’ on the emotional“waters” in this moment are raising feelings high and creating a
strong sense of satisfaction, all under the blessing of the ‘Moon’s’strong feminine energy. There’s a sense that one has all that’sneeded, and emotions are running at full tilt. The ‘Garden’ is‘Fertile’ and full of produce, vegetables, apples, flowers and plantsof all descriptions. It may be time for the harvesting of the fruits ofyour efforts and there may be a need for more fertilization soon,but right now you can enjoy the fullness of this time. As there’sso much ‘Fertile’ energy around, this is a situation brimming withrewards and opportunities for new life. Enjoy the moment andtry to keep a sense of equilibrium, though, as soon the energywill be on the wane and you'll have to get back to more practical,
everyday tasks. However, there can also be the sense that oneis at the peak of some experience and at any moment it could
all slide away. The time of the ‘Full Moon’ is a time when the
male and female energies are at their greatest polarity, with theSun, representing male energies, and the ‘Moon’, the feminineaspect, being in opposition to each other in the sky. If there’s a
rift between people, it may be time to reflect on what’s causingit. Don’t feel that your opportunities for happiness have passed.‘Fertile’ periods come in cycles, and it is likely that another
opportunity will come soon. In the meantime, carry on with
everyday tasks and prepare for the next ‘Fertile’ stage.
Keywords: Fullness and fertility. Peak of energy and experiences.
Brilliantly active unconscious life. Cycles. Waiting for the right
time to approach or handle a situation. The effect of the moon.
Astrology and predictive practices. The time for harvesting therewards of hard work. Nature sprites. Vegetables, herbs andnature's bounty.
The Caution: Jealous protection of possessions. Not being able tomake one’s mind up because of the number of possibilities. Missedopportunities. Difficulty shutting down the mind. Emotions thatget out of hand.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 28
The first farmer was the first
man, and all historic nobilityrests on possession and use ofland.Ralph Waldo Emerson
A moon garden is one whichis filled with white-floweringplants that catch the moonlight
and awaken the moon faeries.Only white blossoms are ableto capture and reflect the palelight cast by amoonbeam.Dubh Sidhe
Ever since man began to till
the soil and learned not to eatthe seed grain but to plant it
and wait for the harvest, thepostponement of gratification
has been the basis of ahigher standard of living andcivilization.S. 1. Hayakawa
It’s the opinion of some thatcrops could be grown on themoon. Which raises the fear
that it may not be long before
we're paying somebody not to.
Franklin P. Jones
Ignorance is the night of the
mind, but a night without moon
and star.Confucius
A mind without instruction canno more bear fruit than canafield, however fertile, without
cultivation.Cicero

12-29: LIGHT BREAKING INTO MANY
COLORS AS IT PASSES THROUGH A
PRISM
Commentary: 'Lights Breaking into Many Colors as it Passes Through a Prism' is an image of beauty and shape. A 'Prism' in optics is a piece of translucent glass or crystal that is used to form a spectrum of light that is separated because different wavelengths or frequencies are bent by different amounts as they enter the prism and again as they leave it. The shorter wavelengths, toward the blue or violet end of the spectrum, are refracted by the greatest amount; the longer wavelengths, towards the red end, are refracted the least.
Oracle: You may need to break your situation down into its
simpler components in order to see the full picture. Eventhough there are complex things that need to be broken downto their elemental parts, it is not as difficult as it might seem.
This is vital to the success of the situation, and will lead to agreater understanding of the relationship between the manyparts. Just be careful not to overanalyze, thereby losing the joythat’s inherent. This Symbol can also indicate that you are of acurious nature, or perhaps just have a natural capacity for probing
into complexities and learning about the makeup of an object,situation or a person. This can, on one hand, make for a constantfascination with the connectedness and the larger questions of
life. However, be aware that an emphasis on pulling things apart,and continual analysis can lead to disappointment; the variouselements may be somehow less exciting than the whole. This
Symbol is encouraging you to take a single vision and developit into its many possible individual streams. Color may indeedhave a part to play, as can symbols and images. Hang a crystal in
the window to attract the rays of the sun. This can bring someglorious energy your way.
Keywords: Spectrum analysis. Color and crystal healing.Rainbows. Light refraction. Side effects. Considering manyfacets of a situation. Endless opportunities. Optics. Sight. Seeing.Copying and sharing ideas or things. Disseminating information.
Auras and aura photography. Triangles. Polarization of light.Reflection. Laboratory tests. Diffracted personality.
The Caution: Locked in to a set of parameters. Over analyzing things. Being blinded by ambition. Daunted by the task ahead. Mirages. Microscopes and binoculars but not seeing things as they really are.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 29
An optimistis a person whosees a green light everywhere,while a pessimist sees only thered stoplight... The truly wiseperson is colorblind.Albert Schweitzer
Nothing has such power tobroaden the mind as the abilityto investigate systematicallyand truly all that comes under
thy observation in life.
Marcus Tuileries
It's a good thing that when Godcreated the rainbow, He didn't
consult a decorator or He wouldstill be picking colors.Sam Levenson
The purest and most thoughtfulminds are those which love
color the most.John Ruskin
...daydreams, as it were... |
look out the window sometimes
to seek the color of the shadows
and the different greens in thetrees, but when |get ready topaint just close my eyes and
imagine a scene.Grandma Moses
All colors are the friends of their
neighbors and the lovers oftheir opposites.Marc Chagall

12-30: A MAJESTIC ROCK FORMATION
RESEMBLING A FACE IS IDEALIZED
BY A BOY WHOTAKES IT AS HIS
IDEAL OF GREATNESS, AS HE
GROWS UP, HE BEGINS TO LOOK
LIKE IT
Commentary: ‘A Majestic Rock Formation Resembling a Face is
Idealized by a Boy Who Takes it as His Ideal of Greatness, ‘As HeGrows Up, He Begins to Look Like It’ shows the ability that wehave of projecting an ideal or an image into the future. This canbe an image of what, or who, we’d like to become. We can thengrow and emerge into that reality.
Oracle: Sometimes we see an image of ourselves that we'd liketo emulate or aspire to or become. It’s good to have a goal in life,something we can inspire us, and something to work towards.
Truly in this life, we can set our sights high and aim for them,as did the ‘Boy’ who looked on the ‘Majestic Rock Formation’ as‘His Ideal of Greatness’. Having an ‘Ideal’ of how we'd like to becan be great, as long as we aren’t trying to be something that wenaturally or intrinsically are not possible of being. What is that
you ‘Idealize’? What is it that you'd like to project? What imagesuits the real person inside of you? You may find that you aregrowing into the ‘Ideal’ that you have imagined and it gives youa sense of pride and fulfillment, assuming you have imagined apositive image. Meditating on a goal or the projection of an idealcan lead to actuality, just be clear about what you really desire
in the situation—you just might get it!
Keywords: Concrete manifestation of one’s ideals. Enduring
truths. Culmination of efforts. Projections of ideal images.
Wanting to be “big” and successful. Tutankhamen’s mask. Wantinga sense of immortality. Defining one’s fate through consciousmanifestation. Morphing reality to suit an objective. Ambition.The ability to see life in inanimate objects.
The Caution: Not being at all clear about whom one is or what
one can be. Becoming a screen for the projection of other’s ideals.Stony faces that show the hardships of life. Hardening of one’s
personality. Stony faces. Idealizing others therefore losing one'sown identity.
What does this SYMBOL say to you?
Pisces 30
I always wanted to be someone,but I should have been morespecific.
Lily Tomlin
Life is a quarry, out of whichwe are to mold and chisel and
complete a character.Goethe
We are what we pretend to be,
so we must be careful what wepretend to be.Kurt Vonnegut
For aman to achieve all thatis demanded of him he mustregard himself as greater thanhe is. You must see your goalsclearly and specifically before
you can set out for them. Hold
them in your mind until theybecome second nature.Les Brown
Ordinary people believe onlyin the possible. Extraordinarypeople visualize not whatis possible or probable, butrather what is impossible. And
by visualizing the impossible,they begin to see it as possible.
Cherie Carter-Scott
| guess it proves that in Americaanyone can be.
President Gerald Ford(Referring to his ownappointment as President)






































































